INT.  SUBWAY

With the clash of cymbals, the train crashes into the wall of
rubble.

EXT.  NEW GOVERNMENT BUILDING

The entire building opens like a time-lapsed rose blooming
with brilliant orange petals of flame.

EXT.  CITY STREET

The crowd is awash in the baptismal glow of erupting flame.

EXT.  ROOFTOP

Evey watches the explosion, a star-burst of flaming debris
searing against the night sky like fireworks.

EXT.  CITY STREET

The masses burst through the barricades with a euphoric
frenzy.

EXT.  ROOFTOP

The explosion begins to slowly die.

EXT.  CITY STREET

An enormous crowd has begun to gather in the streets
surrounding the New Government Building.  With the crowd, a
restlessness swells against each barricade erected by the
military.

A sergeant stands on an armored car, speaking through a
megaphone.

The Leader screams.

V drives the knife into his heart, killing him instantly.

V stands alone amidst the carnage and seeping pools of red.

His body wavers.  He takes his hands out from beneath his
cloak and reveals his gloves, wet with blood.

Almost casually, V bends down to pick up the knife --

The Leader screams and fires.

Bullets knock V back a bit but he continues, grabbing the
knife and standing.

Eyes widening with disbelief, the Leader fires another blast
as V begins walking towards him.

The machine gun roars, bullets shredding out through the back
of V's cloak as he continues with short deliberate steps
until --

The hammer clicks against the pin.  The gun is empty.

V stands before him.

INT.  TRAIN TUNNELS

Five soldiers creep forward in a tight formation, their
flashlights probing every nook and cranny.

Behind them, a secret passage opens and V steps out.

He is among them with frightful speed, a grinning dervish
with blades like metal fangs ripping and rending flesh,
slashing bright in the flashlight.

Other soldiers rush towards the screams and gunfire but they
find only five bodies and warm blood running down the walls.

EXT.  CITY STREET

Dozens of military vehicles swarm around the entrance to
Victoria Station while heavily armed men pour through the
gates of the underground.

INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE

A dark figure stands over Creedy.  The hammer raises, a slash
of silver against the velvety darkness.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

V punches a button on the jukebox just as --

INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE

The hammer falls with a sickening soft crunch.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

The song begins to play; a melancholy song that says goodbye
to love.

INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE

Blood pours down Creedy's snarling face, he snatches one of
V's knives as another hammer blow cracks through his collar
bone.

He screams, lunging at Conrad.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

V listens to the song, the smiling eyes somehow knowing.

INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE

The hammer falls again and again until the metal head is
slick with blood and meat.

Conrad stumbles back, dropping the hammer.  He looks down at
the hilt of the knife protruding from his stomach.  He yanks
it out and holds V's knife which is bright red with his own
blood.

He collapses to the floor.

EXT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE

Creedy opens the trunk of his car.  In the phosphorescent
glow of the streetlight, the set of knives gleam.  He bundles
the costume that he tried to planet on Finch into his arms,
then slams the trunk.

Above, a window blind that was cracked open snaps shut.

Conrad loses control and the car careens up onto the sidewalk
and smashes into a brick wall.

Lifting his bloodied forehead, Conrad looks out and sees the
ubiquitous poster partially destroyed by the crash: "Strength
through purity, purity through faith."

INT.  TRAIN CAR

Finch hears something and jerks back, almost falling out of
the car.  Aiming his gun, he finds no one.  He turns and
bolts.

As the sound of his footsteps fade, V steps out of the
shadows.

INT.  NEW GOVERNMENT BUILDING

The Leader's Lieutenant looks up from his desk and sees Finch
rushing towards him.

INT.  SUBWAY

A single flashlight beam creeps toward us as Finch searches
the detritus of the dead train line.

INT.  CONRAD'S CAR

Sitting at a stoplight, Conrad decides to open the package. 
Inside is a cassette tape.  The light changes and a car
behind him honks.  He starts forward and inserts the tape.

INT.  SUBWAY

Finch crawls up onto the platform of V's hidden station,
staring at the beautiful old train car.

INT.  CONRAD'S CAR

Strangling the steering wheel, Conrad listens to the tape. 
The speedometer climbs as everything seems to accelerate.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

Conrad accesses the department of water and power.  He finds
the correct file and begins rerouting power to a once dead
system.

INT.  V'S TRAIN STATION

A hanging light suddenly sizzles to life.  V looks up,
smiling.

EXT.  CITY STREET

In his car, Finch races to a corner and slams on the brakes. 
He gets out, staring at a shadow on the ground: a "V" in a
circle.

The shadow is cast by a sign for Victoria Station, part of
the abandoned subway.

The gates are chained shut.  He fires his pistol into the
lock, kicks open the rusting gates, and descends into the
underground.

INT.  LEADER'S PRIVATE QUARTERS

The Leader closes the door behind them.

Finch sits alone, palms pressed to his bleary eyes.

With a red pen, he begins absently drawing red circles around
any V he sees on any piece of paper.

Victims.  Vectors.  Values.  Victory.  Words from quotes and
lists.

Suddenly, he stops.  Carefully, as if reaching to touch a
butterfly, he slips a single sheet out from the sheaves
covering his desk.

The paper has a long list: the names of all the Queens of
England.  He has circled in red the V in Victoria.

When it hits him, it hits him like a falling safe.

INT.  CREEDY'S BEDROOM

Where we see a tiny microphone hidden in the ceiling light
above the bed.

Helen moans as we drift down, glimpsing Helen, her arms
reaching for the edges of the bed, her back arching up
towards Creedy, behind her, smiling.

EXT.  CITY STREET

One of the Ear's black vans has been modified with large
speakers wired to the roof.  As the van rolls down the
street, the speakers drone with a looped message.

Out of the back, soldiers hurl leaflets that swirl and
flutter in the van's wake.

The little girl on the bicycle that we saw earlier stops and
picks up one of the leaflets.

It has a picture with the body of Roger Dascombe beneath the
headline, "The terrorist is dead!  London is safe once
again!"

INT.  HALL

A path is cleared for the Leader.  As he heads into the
television studio, an armed soldier is heading in the
opposite direction.

It is impossible to tell because of the dark face plate but
it looks like the soldier is smiling.

The Leader shoves his way onto the main stage.  A group of
soldiers is gathered around the body.

The mask is pried off, revealing the lifeless face of Roger
Dascombe.  To the Leader, it is an obvious revelation.

EXT.  TELEVISION STORE

The crowd is much larger.
 
Every screen suddenly goes black.  The crowd turns to each
other, unsure of what to do.

INT.  CONTROL BOOTH

The door explodes open.  V is standing alone, almost as if
waiting for them.

Before he can even move, they shoot.  Machine gun fire lights
up the room.  V's body dances and jerks backward, smashing
through an observation window --

Falling to the television stage below.
 
INT.  JORDAN TOWER

V follows Roger Dascombe into the main control booth.  The
door shuts behind them and they are alone.

All around them are the laugh tracks and gunshots of the
evening's entertainment.

V puts his hand into his cloak and pulls out a videotape.  He
hands it to Dascombe.

INT.  JORDAN TOWER

V emerges from an elevator and immediately attacks several
more guards.  A surveillance camera watches as V steps over
their slumped, broken bodies.

INT.  CONTROL CENTER

The security guard sees V on the monitor coming directly down
the hall.

He pushes a button and a secret passage opens in a heavy
stone wall.

There is a small narrow series of passageways that he guides
her through, leading to another door.  Evey steps out into an
underground subway station.

INT.  VALERIE'S ROOM

It is a shrine.  The walls are covered with movie posters and
reviews and pictures of an actresses named Valerie Page.  We
recognize her as the woman chosen for the medical block just
before V.

Everywhere there are flower boxes filled with blooming roses;
violet carsons.

INT.  FINCH'S APARTMENT

Finch sits alone in his modest apartment, reading a book. 
The book is Koesterler's, "The Roots of Coincidence."

An old CD player is playing music, a Bach piano concerto.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

V is playing the exact same concerto on his piano, his gloved
fingers gracefully flitting across the keys.

Evey enters the gallery.  Her hair has grown out but is still
short.  She projects a kind of strength that comes from a
deep inner peace.

V coaxes the final delicate notes and lets them softly fade.
He punches a "play" button and a wall of monitors blink on. 
It is a recording of a television variety show.

A character that is made to look like Adam Susan is giving a
speech.  A woman is dressed like V except that the only thing
she is wearing under her cloak is a garter belt, stockings
and high heels.

V sneaks up behind Susan and yanks his pants down.  Susan is
outraged but when he gives chase he trips over his pants. 
The audience hoots and howls.

The Leader kills the tape.

EXT.  ROOF - NIGHT

The two figures stand in the door of the roof access, a
raging tempest oozing from a split sky.

Something draws Evey out into the storm.

Slowly, she walks beneath it, the wind and rain pounding
against her thin frame.  Evey lets the coarse slipover fall
to the ground and stares straight up into the storm, naked,
the elements soaking into her very being.

V moves up behind her.

She listens as his footsteps fade down the hall, the door
hanging weirdly open.

Evey takes a few tentative steps toward the door and sticks
her head out into the empty hall, peering down both ways.

Slowly, she emerges from her cell, retracing her path down
the hall that her blindfold never allowed her to see.

Quietly inching along the wall, Evey peeks around a corner,
gasping at the rigid guard standing off to the side.  There
is something about the man's frozen stare that keeps her from
running.

Evey straightens and crosses to the guard.

It is a mannequin.

She touches him, the wheeled platform he is mounted on
rolling back against the wall.

INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM

The door creaks open as Evey enters the room where for so
long she was questioned and tortured.

She crosses to the frozen Interrogator sitting at his desk.

Her finger brushes lightly against the plastic hand, then
Evey raps a knuckle on his hollow wooden head.  Around his
neck a small speaker hangs from a cord.

Evey drifts uneasily into a back room where a discarded
prison guard's uniform hangs on a rack.  On a table next to a
wig and pair of gloves, the rat looks up at her through the
bars of its tiny cage.

She moves through another door, the wind suddenly knocked
from her chest as she finally sees where her prison was
built --

INT.  CELL

Evey is curled up on the cot like a dry fetus, now gaunt arms
wrapped around her legs.  She blinks when she hears something
moving in the rat hole.

Evey raises her head as something is pushed through the
crevice.

Tentative fingers search the hole, pulling out a length of
toilet paper.  Over every inch of it is a delicately scrawled
message.

We move into the rathole, its edges slowly filling the frame
until black.

EXT.  INTERROGATION ROOM

Pull back from a shadow, the outline of the interrogator's
silhouette against sharp light coming into frame.
INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM

The hood is lifted from her head.  Evey squints hard, awash
in a blinding, burning light.

A man sits, unmoving, at a desk across from her, a guard at
his side, both backlit by a harsh white kliegs.

Evey's eyes start to water as she blinks.

EXT.  KITTY KAT KELLER

A gaggle of drunks exit the bar, laughing and singing as they
pass a small figure.

INT.  KITTY KAT KELLER

Evey wanders into the bar amidst the lustful screams and cat
calls for the line of high stepping, semi-clothed girls on
stage.

She stares out into the crowd, not sure why she is here when
a man approaches her: Creedy.  His sloppy smile indicates he
has had a few drinks.
INT.  DELIA SURRIDGE'S HOME

Dr. Surridge sits somberly in the dark, street light
filtering in from the open curtains.

Her eyes fixed on the violet carson as she slowly turns it
over in her hands, fingers tracing the soft petals.

After a moment, she stands, letting it fall from her lap.

INT.  KITTY KAT KELLER

A woman in combat boots, fishnets, and a tight fitting
soldier's uniform is in the middle of a cheeky number on
stage in this smoky burlesque bar.  It is a popular place
with locals and Fingermen.

Peter Creedy squeezes through the crowd, angling for the back
of the bar where a number of loud Fingermen are drinking.

INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE - THE NOSE

Finch sits at his desk, staring into the silence of his
notepad.  He has doodled a little "V" with a circle around
it.

He looks up as Dominic enters, holding up a portable cassette
player.

EXT.  BISHOP'S QUARTERS - NIGHT

Close on a stain of white vomit and blood on the thick pile
of a Persian rug.  It is encircled in police chalk.

Pull back to reveal the chalk outline where the body of
Bishop Lilliman was found.  The circled bloodstain floats
above the head like the last word balloon of a crude comic
strip character.

The Bishop's quarters is slowly being picked over by a
forensic team from the Nose.  A photographer's flash bursts
against a painted "V" on the wall near the body outline.

At the window, Finch chews on his pipe, staring at a plastic
evidence bag that contains a single violet carson rose.

INT.  THE EAR

A cramped control room that looks like something between a
radio and television switching room, though it does not
broadcast.  It receives.

Two operators sit at the main substation as the sounds of
lovemaking come over the speakers.  The moans are stifled and
low, however, as if they were afraid someone was listening.

EXT.  MAIN GATE - NIGHT

The guards look out into the night, fear suddenly gripping
their faces.

V emerges demonically through the parting veils of fog, the
white smiling mask bobbing eerily up and down as he rushes
them.

A cigarette drops from the first guard's mouth, red embers
exploding when it hits the wet cement.

Close as the two guards claw for their arms and the white hot
flash of V's knives --

That slice like talons.

The two men crumple to the ground, clutching their gaping,
gurgling wounds.  A whisper.  V sprints into the courtyard.

INT.  BISHOP'S BEDROOM

Evey grabs a metal table lamp and swings it down on the
Bishop's head.  There is a shuddering clank and he collapses
to the floor. 

EXT.  WESTMINSTER ABBEY - DAY

The church doors have opened with the flow of parishioners as
the final mass of the day has ended.

The tide slowly pours out onto the sidewalk, separating
around the clumps of people that conglomerate to network and
gossip.

Church bells toll in the orange dusk above them.

Helen Heyer, a woman whose spite and guile are hidden behind
her looks and clothes she drapes them with, charges into the
gossipers, her trophy husband in tow, a timid looking man
that we recognize as Conrad Heyer.

EXT.  TRAIN STATION

The station is swarming with police.  A stretcher wheels a
body in a black plastic bag out from Prothero's car.

INT.  TRAIN CAR

Finch puffs on his pipe, staring at something spray painted
on the wall of the train car: a "V" with a circle around it.

It is a labyrinth of interconnecting underground tunnels and
rooms.

The gallery is the main room as it is filled with an amazing
collection of human culture.  There is art that spans from
the renaissance to the painted covers of Eerie comics,
literature that ranges from Shakespeare to Spillane,
philosophy from Plato to Bukowski, and a vast collection of
nonfiction.

There are movie posters everywhere and an entire wall is
lined with videocassettes.

A jukebox stands in front of an enormous vinyl and CD
collection of music.

EXT.  NEW GOVERNMENT BUILDING

A massive modern building that is the seat of the new
government.

A long, black car pulls up to the entrance.  Adam Susan gets
out, wearing a long black trenchcoat over his pajamas.  He is
the Leader and he looks older, heavier, and meaner.

He hurries past the heavily armed guards, barely
acknowledging the snap and cock of their Nazi-like salute.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

The Leader enters his main chambers and we see the Fate
computer system.

It is a cerebral cortex for a vast intelligence network. 
Information can almost be felt coursing through its hard
drives.

The Leader sits, at once regaining a measure of composure. 
He takes a deep calming breath and accesses the system.

Dozens of monitors fill with images from all across the city,
most of them are of the damage caused by V.

V attacks and at once we know this is no normal human being. 
A single blow sends the largest of the Fingermen flying
backwards.

But more than his strength, it is his speed.

A gun is cocked but before the hammer falls, a knife is
buried in the Fingerman's chest and --

Before the body falls, the knife is gone.

It takes a handful of seconds and three bodies lay on the
ground.  V turns to the last Fingerman who is struggling to
pull his pants up.

FINGERMAN 3
Jesus Christ!  Don't hurt me!

V steps forward and he screams, bolting while holding his
pants up.

INT.  HOVERCRAFT

A sentinel BLOWS a hole in Morpheus' right arm and he
screams, refusing to let go of the detonator.

INT.  ROOM 303 (MATRIX) - DAY

Neo dives for the RINGING PHONE.

INT.  HOVERCRAFT

Machines split open the craft, pouring in, lasers
targeting everywhere.

A beat finds the center of Morpheus' forehead and he
screams, ready to die.

INT.  HOVERCRAFT

Tank is hit, a laser bolt knocking him to the ground.
They can't hold them off any longer.  Morpheus lunges for
the self destruct --

As Trinity whispers in Neo's ear.

INT.  HALL (MATRIX) - DAY

Three holes in his chest, Neo falls to the blue shag
carpeting, blood smearing down the wallpaper.

Agent Smith stands over him, still aiming, taking no
chances.
Neo drops the phone as his car bucks into the opposing
lane --

Directly into the charging path of an enormous truck
driven by Agent Smith.

Neo dives from the Mercedes as the truck plows into it,
rending metal and GLASS, crushing through, totaling other
cars, as it EXPLODES.

Neo is up and running even as orange and black clouds
billow up behind hin.

EXT.  CITY STREET (MATRIX) - DAY

Three figures silhouette by the burning wreckage become
the three agents.

Further down the street, Neo hauls his broken, bleeding
ass.

Agents Brown and Smith slow, touching their ear-pieces as
Agent Jones continues chasing full-bore.

Neo spins around a corner, racing toward a hotel called:
the Heart of Chicago Hotel.

Only Agent Jones is behind him now.

Neo dives into the alley.  At the far end he sees Agent
Brown charging.  Neo leaps for the fire escape and begins
to climb.

INT.  SEWER MAIN

Sentinels open and shift like killer kaleidoscopes as
they ready their weapons, swarming around the
Nebuchadnezzar.

INT.  HOVERCRAFT

The hovercraft booms as machines drop onto it.

EXT.  CITY STREET (MATRIX) - DAY

A man sits in his Mercedes, talking on his car phone when
his door is thrown open.  Neo yanks him out and jumps in.

Further down the street, Agent Smith slows, calmly
touching his ear-piece.

Neo throws the car across traffic, rocketing down a side-
street.

INT.  CAR (MATRIX) - DAY

Driving like a demon with one hand, he grabs the car
phone and dials long distance.

INT.  HOVERCRAFT

Tank answers.

INT.  "EL" STATION (MATRIX) - DAY

Neo tries to get up.  Agent Smith jumps down onto the
tracks and drop-kicks him in the face.

The world begins to shake, RUMBLING as the TRAIN NEARS.

Agent Smith grabs Neo in a choke-hold, forcing him to
look down the tracks, the train's headlight burning a
hole in the darkness.

Neo sees it coming and he starts to fight.

There is another METAL SCREECH, MUCH LOUDER, closer, as
Agent Smith tightens his hold.  Neo is unable to breathe.

The TRAIN ROARS at them, swallowing Agent Smith's words.

The veins bulge in Neo's head, as he grits through the
pain.

He is not ready to die.

Impossibly, he hurls himself straight up, smashing Smith
against the concrete ceiling of the tunnel.

They fall as the sound and fury of the TRAIN EXPLODES
INTO the station.

Neo back-flips up off the tracks just as --

The train barrels over Agent Smith.

Neo stands, knees shaking, when the train slams on its
emergency brake.  With an ear-splitting SHRIEK of
TORTURED RAILS, the train slows, part of it still in the
station.

Neo turns, limping, starting to run, racing for the
escalator --

As the train comes to a stop and the doors of the last
car open; Agent Smith bursts out in furious pursuit, his
glasses again intact.

INT.  HOVERCRAFT

Morpheus checks the ship's self destruct key.

INT.  "EL" STATION (MATRIX) - DAY

Agent Smith grabs hold of him, lifting him into the air,
hurling him against the curved wall of the train tunnel,
where he falls inches from the electrified third-rail.

The Agent is about to jump down, and press his attack
when he hears sonething.  From deep in the tunnel, like
an animal cry; a burst of high-speed METAL GRINDING
against METAL.

The sound of an ON-COMING TRAIN.

Agent Smith's face warps with rage and he attacks, fist
flying at furious speed, blows and counters, Neo
retreating as --

A knife-hand opens his forearm, and a kick sends him
slamming back against a steel column.

Stunned, he ducks just under a punch that crunches into
the beam, STEEL CHUNKS EXPLODING like shrapnel.

Behind him, Neo leaps into the air, delivering a neck-
snapping reverse round-house.  Agent Smith's glasses fly
off and he glares at Neo; his eyes, ice blue.
INT.  "EL" STATION (MATRIX) - DAY

GUN REPORT THUNDERS through the underground, both men
BLASTING, moving at impossible speed.

For a blinking noment we enter BULLET-TIME.

Gun flash tongues curl from Neols gun, bullets float
forward like a plane noving across the sky, cartridges
cartwheel into space.

An instant later they are nearly on top of each other,
rolling up out of a move that is almost a mirrored
reflection of the other --

Each jamming their gun tight to the other's head.

They freeze in a kind of embrace; Neo sweating, panting,
Agent Smith machine-calm.

Agent Smith smiles.
She pulls herself away and gets into the booth when
something catches Neo's eye and he looks to where the Old
Man had been.

She hears him SCREAM and sees Agent Smith emerge as if
formed by congealing darkness, charging with a fistful of
metal.

The GUN FIRES, the BULLET flying at her, BURSTING through
the plastic WINDOW just as --

Trinity disappears.

The handset hanging in the air as the BULLET HITS,
SHATTERING the EAR-PIECE.
Morpheus gets in and answers the phone.

Lost in the shadow, the Old Man turns back and watches as
Morpheus disappears, the phone dropping, dangling by its
cord.

His eyes grow wide, glowing white in the dark.

EXT.  ROOFTOP (MATRIX) - DAY

Agent Smith stares, his face twisted with hate.  He will
never be free of the Matrix.

He starts to turn from the edge of the building when he
suddenly hears it, his head whipping back around,
staring --

INT.  "EL" STATION (MATRIX) - DAY

A metal gate is locked, the sign reading, "Station
Closed."  Neo looks around, takes out a GUN and BLOWS OFF
the LOCK.

In the moist underground distance they hear the MUTED
RING of a TELEPHONE.

The PHONE is RINGING inside a graffiti-covered booth.

Across from it, sitting hunched against the red concrete
wall, is an OLD MAN.  He stares at the RINGING PHONE,
taking a final pull off his T-bird.  No one is around.
It continues to RING.

Determined, he stands and walks to the booth.  He is
about to answer the phone, when Neo sees him.
Trinity throws the helicopter towards the roof of the
nearest building.

Morpheus and Neo cling to one another as they and the
machine above them begin to fall.

The ENGINE GRINDS, the CHOPPING BLADES start to slow
while --

The Agents stand in the open shattered window, watching
the helicopter disappear behind taller buildings.

Carried by its nomentum, Trinity guides the parabolic
fall over the nearest roof where --

Neo and Morpheus drop safely, rolling free as the rope
goes slack.  Neo gets to his feet, trying to detach
himself but --

The helicopter is falling too fast, arcing over the roof
like a setting sun --

The coils of slack snap taught --

Yanking Neo off his feet, dragging him with ferocious
speed towards the edge even as --

Trinity lunges for the back door, her gun in one hand,
grabbing for the rope with the other --

Neo flies like a skipping stone, hurtling straight AT us,
when his feet hit the rain gutter --

A fulcrum that levers him up just as --

Trinity FIRES, severing the cord from the HELICOPTER,
falling free of it as it SMASHES, blades first into a 
glass skyscraper.

Holding onto the rope she swings, connected to Neo, who
stands on the building's edge watching her arc beneath
him as the HELICOPTER EXPLODES --

She bounces against a shatterproof window that spider-
cracks out while FLAMES ERUPT behind her.

INT.  PRESIDENTIAL SUITE (MATRIX) - DAY

Morpheus lifts his face into the room's rain.  His eyes,
still white, begin to blink, twitch, then close.

And when he opens them, they are again dark and flashing
with fire.

The Agents knife into the room, FIRING even as Neo's
BULLET TRAILS chase them.

Morpheus strains at his handcuffs.

The Agents and the marines turn the tide, BLASTING LEAD,
RICOCHETING, POCK-MARKING the COPTER.

FIRING wildly, Neo turns to see Morpheus rising, snapping
the handcuffs, starting for the window.

Agent Smith stops and sees Morpheus run past the open
bedroom door.

The GUN jumps and BULLETS EXPLODE through the WINDOW in a
cacophony of CRASHING GLASS --

As the Agents go for their weapons.

But Neo is too close, the .50 CALIBER too fast and
BULLETS are everywhere, perforating the room.

Agent Smith is hit first, his body jack-knifing back,
blood arcing out with a sudden flash of light --

Then Agent Brown, his GUN still FIRING as his body falls.

And finally Agent Jones.

Neo stares at Morpheus, trying to will him into action.

INT.  PRESIDENTIAL SUITE (MATRIX) - DAY

Agent Jones throws open the bedroom door and enters,
walking through the puddles pooling in the carpet.

Over the RUSHING WATER and the ALARMS, Agent Smith hears
a SOUND and understands the seriousness of the attack.

He turns to the wall of windows as the helicopter drops
INTO VIEW --

Neo is in the back bay, aiming the mounted .50 machine
gun.
His GUN BOOMS as we enter the liquid space of --

Bullet-time.

The AIR SIZZLES with wads of lead-like angry flies as Neo
twists, bends, ducks just between them.

Agent Jones still running, narrows the gap, the BULLETS
coming faster until --

Neo bent impossibly back, one hand on the ground as a
spiraling gray ball shears open his shoulder.

He starts to scream as another digs a red groove across
his thigh.

He has only time to look up, to see the barrel when Agent
Jones, standing over him, pulls the TRIGGER the final
time.
Suddenly his face, his whole body dissolves, consumed by
spreading locust-like swarm, of STATIC as --

Agent Jones emerges.

Just as she drops the last Marine, Trinity sees what's
coming.

Neo sees her, the fear in her face, and he knows what is
behind him.

Screaming, he whirls, GUNS filling his hands with
thought-speed.

Fingers PUMPING, SHELLS ejecting, dancing up and away, we
look through the sights and gun smoke at --

The Agent blurred with motion --

Until the HAMMERS CLICK against empty metal.

EXT.  ROOF (MATRIX) - DAY

The roof-access tower is now engulfed in flames as Neo
and Trinity lay waste to a dozen more Marines.

Guns and knives, like extensions of their bodies used
with the same deadly precision as their feet and their
fists.

Across the roof, the pilot inside the army helicopter
watches the ferocious onslaught.
INT.  TOP FLOOR (MATRIX) - DAY

Nervous, the Marines watch as the ELEVATOR "DINGS" softly
and slides open.

Black smoke rises out of the exposed shaft.

The nearest Marine eases to the edge, peering down at the
churning blaze engulfing the lower levels.

He does not see Trinity and Neo above him until it is too
late.

Krack!  Neo kicks, knocking the Marine flying down into
the shaft.

Before the others can react, Trinity flips out into the
hall, decking the nearest Marine.  Neo cracks another.

The fight is over before it begins.

INT.  ELEVATOR SHAFT (MATRIX) - DAY

Neo ratchets down a clamp onto the elevator cable.  Both
of them lock on.  He looks up the long, dark throat of
the building and takes a deep breath.

Neo whips out his gun and presses it to the cable, lower
than where they attached themselves.

BOOM!  The CABLE SNAPS.

The counter-weights plummet, yanking Trinity and Neo up
through the shaft as --

The elevator falls away beneath them, distending space,
filling it with the sound of WHISTLING METAL as they soar
to the top.

INT.  ELEVATORS (MATRIX) - DAY

They get in.  Trinity immediately drops and opens the
suitcase, wiring a plastique and napalm bomb.

Beneath their trench coats is an arsenal of weapons slung
from climbing harnesses.

Neo hits the emergency stop.  He pulls down part of the
false ceiling and finds the elevator shaft access panel.

INT.  NIKO HOTEL (MATRIX) - DAY

In long, black coats, Trinity and Neo push through the
revolving doors.

Neo is carrying a duffel bag.  Trinity has a large metal
suitcase.  They cut across the lobby drawing nervous
glances.

Dark glasses, game faces.

Several plainclothes cops try to stop them.  They are met
by the MUTED SPIT of a SILENCED GUN and the RAZORED
WHISTLE of THROWING STARS.

The cops slump down to the marbled floor while Neo and
Trinity do not even break stride.
EXT.  NIKO HOTEL (MATRIX) - DAY

A Japanese luxury hotel in downtown Chicago.

A military helicopter sets down on the roof.  Heavily
armed Marines begin to deploy.

Agent Jones gets out of the helicopter, flanked by
columns of Marines.  They open the roof access door
and enter the top-floor maintenance level of the hotel.


INT.  TOP FLOOR (MATRIX) - DAY

They get in the elevator.  At every door, at least two
Marines stop and post guard.

INT.  HALL (MATRIX) - DAY

They exit the elevator and walk to the Presidential
suite; the final two Marines post guard.

INT.  PRESIDENTIAL SUITE (MATRIX) - DAY

Inside, he finds Agent Smith.
INT.  MAIN DECK

Tank finishes loading the exit programs as Cypher rises
behind him, swinging the weapon at his back.

He looks over as Dozer turns with the first aid kit, a
look of frozen disbelief crossing his face --

Tank spins as red hot wads of PLASMA EXPLODE through his
chair and into his back.  Diving, a second BURST tears up
his side --

As Dozer shoots a look at the monitor where Tank was
working.  He stabs the enter command activating the exit
sequence and ducks under a BARRAGE of PLASMA FIRE-
INT.  APPLIANCE STORE (MATRIX) - DAY

Dead machines, eviscerated and shrouded with dust lay on
metal shelves like bodies in a morgue.

Plywood covering a small window is ripped off and Cypher
crawls inside.

Deep in the back room, a PHONE that has not rung in years
begins to RING.

EXT.  STREET (MATRIX) - DAY

A manhole cover cracks open.  Two eyes peek out just as a
TRUCK RATTLES over it.  The THUNDER DOPPLERS AWAY and the
cover opens.

Neo, Trinity, Switch and Apoc climb out.  Trinity pulls a
water-logged phone from her pocket.
INT.  SEWER MAIN (MATRIX) - DAY

Trinity leads the others, fading into the darkness of the
tunnel, lit only with shafts of lights streaming through
the street drains as we RISE TOWARDS them --

THROUGH a grate INTO the fight.

EXT.  STREET (MATRIX) - DAY

Smith and Morpheus exchange a furious serious of blows
that is witnessed but not believed by the surrounding
police.

Agent Smith delivers a punishing kick that staggers
Morpheus.
EXT.  STREET (MATRIX) - DAY

Morpheus shoots out of the sewer but the police are
waiting for him.  The closest cop is armed with a
tranquilized gun.  He fires --

But Morpheus' is too fast, using the manhole cover as a
shield, blocking the darts, then --

Frisbee-ing it into the cop's armored chest, knocking him
off his feet.

The cops lunge at him but every part of his body is a
deadly weapon moving with impossible speed.

It seems he might fight his way out when he throws a
spinning back fist that is caught by --

Agent Smith.

EXT.  HOTEL LAFAYETTE (MATRIX) - DAY

Cypher is carried out, hand-cuffed, his body still
shaking, mucus bubbling out his nose.  As he is led past
Agent Smith, it almost seems that both men smile.

INT.  SEWER MAIN (MATRIX) - DAY

Neo punches out the screen and then spills down into the
main water trough.

Oily water forms around them as they wade across the man-
made underground river, towards the service catwalk.

Neo is about to pull himself out when he sees them coming.

Flashlights and laser sites sweep at them as cops in
helmets and heavy armor, looking more nachine than human,
fill both ends of the tunnel.

There is a single manhole cover above them.

Morpheus whispers to Trinity.

INT.  BASEMENT (MATRIX) - DAY

Morpheus watches Cypher disappear into the smoke then
follows the others down the wet-black hole.

INT.  CATCH BASIN (MATRIX) - DAY

They crawl through greasy black water in a three foot
diameter pipe that feeds into the sewer main.

INT.  BASEMENT (MATRIX) - DAY

Gas-masked apparitions find the open hole.
INT.  BASEMENT (MATRIX) - DAY

This part of the basement, a dark concrete cavern, was
the main mechanical room.  There are four enormous
boilers, dinosaur-like technology that once pumped hot
water like arteries.

Black and bloody, they squeeze out from the ceiling into
the tangled web of pipes.

Their enemies are waiting for them.

Blinding lights cut open the darkness as gas-masked
figures FIRE GRENADE LAUNCHERS.

Smoke blossoms from the green-metal canisters.

Morpheus never stops moving.  Searching the floor, he
finds what.he needs; the cover of the catch basin.

Cypher watches him pry open the grate, when a gas can
bounces near him.

INT.  ROOM 608 (MATRIX) - DAY

The Cop keeps FIRING, his flashlight strapped to his gun
barrel, lighting up the wall until --

A BULLET spits out his forehead.  Agent Smith watches the
BODY fall with a THUD.

INT.  ROOM 608 (MATRIX) - DAY

The cops search in silence, straining for a clue, when
one hears SOMETHING STRANGE near the bathroom.

INT.  WALL (MATRIX) - DAY

Cypher has slipped and is wedged between the wall and
several thick supply pipes.

INT.  ROOM 608 (MATRIX) - DAY

The Cop leans in, his ear almost against the thin
membrane of plaster separating them.  He can hear
WHISPERS, HISSES and a GRUNT when --

The WALL suddenly bulges, SHATTER-CRACKING as the Cop
realizes --
EXT.  HOTEL LAFAYETTE (MATRIX) - DAY

More police cars arrive as cops break open the lobby
doors.

INT.  STAIRWELL (MATRIX) - DAY

Flying downstairs, Morpheus stops, hearing the police
swarming below.  He turns and rushes down the hall of the
eighth floor.  At the end of it, he finds the bricked-up
windows.
INT.  HOTEL LAFAYETTE (MATRIX) - DAY

Light filters down the throat of the building through a
caged skylight at the top of the open elevator shaft.
Four figures glide up the dark stairs that wind around
the antique elevator.

Neo notices a black cat, a yellow-green-eyed shadow that
slinks past them and pads quickly down the stairs.

A moment later, Neo sees another black cat that looks and
moves identically to the first one.
EXT.  CITY STREET (MATRIX) - DAY

Storm clouds shroud the streets as the sky turns
jaundice.

Cypher nervously glances down the surrounding streets.
He notices several unmarked white vans.

He mops the sweat from his forehead, when Trinity sees
the black Lincoln.
INT.  ORACLE'S CHAMBERS (MATRIX) - DAY

It looks like a suburban tract house.

There is a lot of cozy furniture, a dining roon hutch
filled with china, shelves and tables crowded with
doilies, knick-knacks and ceramic brick-a-brack.

Neo follows the plastic carpet runner to the kitchen.

A WOMAN is huddled beside the oven, peering inside
through the cracked door.

INT.  ROOM OF POTENTIALS (MATRIX) - DAY

Neo enters and finally understands the attention given to
his age.  The Potentials are all little children.

The room feels at once like a Buddhist temple and a
kindergarten class.  The children's heads are either
shaved or thick with dreadlocks.  Some are playing,
others meditating or practicing their gift.

Neo watches a little girl levitate wooden alphabet
blocks.  A skinny BOY holds a SPOON which sways like a
blade of grass as he bends it with his rnind.

Neo crosses to him, sits.

The Boy smiles as Neo picks up a spoon and tries to
imitate him.  Despite his best efforts, Neo cannot make
it bend.

INT.  BASEMENT (MATRIX) - DAY

A high-tech laptop and modem are set up on a stack of
milk crates.  Neo waits as Morpheus types in a series of
access codes.  After a moment the screen blinks, "Welcome
Morpheus."

Morpheus walks back to the same door they entered, but it
now leads into --
EXT.  BAR (MATRIX) - DAY

The Continental pulls up to a bar in the kind of
neighborhood where every corner has a pair of eyes.

INT.  BAR (MATRIX) - DAY

A lightless, lower-class bar.  No one enters that is not
expected.

The front doors open in a brilliant burst of sunlight as
Mojo leads Morpheus and Neo inside.  Neo looks around,
his eyes adjusting to the darkness.

Mojo talks to the bartender, then looks over.

INT.  HOTEL LAFAYETTE (MATRIX) - DAY

The room is empty, heavy curtains covering windows.  It
looks as if it hasn't been touched in years.  In the
bedroom with the cracked oval mirror an old black PHONE
begins to RING.

In the mirror, we first glimpse them and as we keep
TURNING, the room fills with equipment and the team.

Morpheus answers the phone.

EXT.  ROOFTOP

Summoning every ounce of strength in his legs, Neo
launches himself into the air in a single maniacal shriek

But comes up drastically short.

His eyes widen as he plummets.  Stories fly by, the
ground rushing up at him, but as he hits --

The ground gives way, stretchinp like a trapeze net.

He bounces and flips, slowly coming to a rest, flat on
his back.

He laughs, a bit unsure, wiping the wind-blown tears from
his face.

Morpheus exits the building and helps him to his feet.
INT.  DOJO

The speed of the blows rises like a drum solo that seems
impossible to sustain.  Neo's face sheds its mask of calm
with a scream.

He wants to beat Morpheus bad.

Finally a single blow catches Morpheus on the side of the
head, knocking his glasses off.
INT.  MAIN DECK

While their minds battle in the programmed reality, the
two bodies appear quite serene, suspended in the drive
chairs.

Tank monitors their life systems noticing that Neo is
wildly and chaotically lit up as opposed to the slow and
steady rhythm of Morpheus.

INT.  MESS HALL

Dinner is up.  Everyone is eating bowls of single-cell
protein.  It has a cottage cheese consistency.

MOUSE bursts in the room.
INT.  MAIN DECK - CLOSE ON COMPUTER MONITOR - LATER

as grey pixels slowly fill a small, half-empty box.  It
is a meter displaying how much download time is left.

The title bar reads:  "Combat Series 10 of 12," file
categories flashing beneath it:  Savate, Jujitsu, Ken Po,
Drunken Boxing...

Morpheus walks in.
INT.  NEO'S ROOM

Neo wakes up from a deep sleep, feeling better.  He is
wearing a black tank top and shorts.

He begins to examine himself.  There is a futuristic IV
plugged into the jack in his forearm.  He pulls it out,
staring at the grafted outlet.

He feels his bald head.  His fingers find and explore the
large outlet in the base of his skull.

Just as he starts to come unglued, Morpheus opens the
door.

INT.  HOVERCRAFT

The metal harness opens and drops the half-conscious Neo
onto the floor.

Human hands and arms help him up as he finds himself
looking straight at Morpheus.

Trinity and Apoc.  And others, dressed in bizarre, high-
tech combat gear.

Morpheus smiles.
INT.  WASTE LINE

The pipe is a waste disposal system and Neo falls,
sliding with the clot of gelatin.

Banking through pipe spirals and elbows, flushing up
through grease traps clogged with cily clunps of
cellulite.

Neo begins to drown when he is suddenly snatched from the
flow of waste.

The metallic cable then lifts, pulling him up into the
belly of the futuristic flying nachine, hovering inside
the sewer main line.

INT.  POWER PLANT - CLOSE ON MAN'S BODY

Floating in a womb-red amnion.

His body spasms, fighting against the thick gelatin.

Metal tubes, surreal versions of hospital tubes, obscure
his face.  Other lines like IVs are connected to limbs
and cover his genitals.

He is struggling desperately now.  Air bubbles into the
Jell-O but does not break the surface.

Pressing up, the surface distends, stretching like a red
rubber coccon.

Unable to breathe, he fights wildly to stand, clawing at
the thinning elastic shroud --

Until it ruptures, a hole widening around his mouth as he
sucks for air.  Tearing himself free, he emerges from the
cell.

It is Neo.

He is bald and naked, his body slick with gelatin.
Dizzy, nauseous, he waits for his vision to focus.

He is standing in an oval capsule of clear alloy filled
with red gelatin, the surface of which has solidified
like curdled milk.

The IVs in his arms are plugged into outlets that appear
to be grafted to his flesh.

He feels the weight of another cable and reaches to the
back of his head where he finds an enormous coaxial
plugged and locked into the base of his skull.

He tries to pull it out but it would be easier to pull
off a finger.

To either side he sees other tube-shaped pods filled with
red gelatin; beneath the wax-like surface, pale and
motionless, he sees other human beings.

Fanning out in a circle, there are more.  All connected
to a center core, each capsule like a red, dimly glowing
petal attached to a black metal stem.

Above him, level after, level, the stem rises seemingly
forever.  He moves to the foot of the capsule and looks
out.

The image assaults his mind.

Towers of glowing petals spiral up to incomprehensible
heights, disappearing down into a dim murk like an
underwater abyss.

His sight is blurred and warped, exaggerating the
intensity of the vision.  The sound of the PLANT is like
the sound of the ocean heard from inside the belly of
Leviathan.

Below Neo, a petal detaches from the stem, bearing away
the body of an old man like an automated barge even as a
new pod rises up and plugs itself into the empty space.

Inside the new capsule, its surface more translucent and
pinkish in color, Neo sees a small baby.

From above, a machine drops directly in front of Neo.

He swallows his scream as it seems to stare at him.

It is almost insect-like in its design; beautiful
housings of alloyed metal covering organic-like systems
of hard and soft polymers.

A black particle beam washes over Neo, he reacts in pain
as the scanner seems to expose the nervous system wired
to the coaxial cable at his cerebral cortex.

At the back of the neck, the cable lock spins and opens,
disengaging.

The cable pulls itself free, a long clear plastic needle
and cerebrum-chip slides from the anterior of Neols skull
with an ooze of blood and spinal fluid.  The other
connective hoses snap free and snake away as --

The back of the unit opens and a tremendous vacuum, like
an airplane door opening, sucks the gelatin and then Neo
into a black hole.

INT.  VAN

The chop-shop is filled with electronic gadgets, wired to
meters and monitors.  There are shelves lined with
medical supplies and rows of hanging tools, knives,
cleavers, and stainless steel clamps.

Neo is strapped down to an ambulance cart, listening
nervously as Gizmo gets to work.
EXT.  LOWER WACKER

A featureless black van glides up to a staircase that
curls down from the city's surface.

trinity guides the blind Neo down the steps.  The back of
the van slaps open, revealing a young, skinny man who
looks to be still in his teens, wearing an outfit that is
a cross between a surgeon and a telephone repair man.

His name is GIZMO and he smiles lewdly at Trinity,
exposing his teeth that are wired with weird-looking
braces.
INT.  TRAIN

It is three a.m., and the train carries the usual urban
night crawlers.  Neo sits alone, eyes shifting, watching
everything nervously.

There is a METAL BANG and TRAIN CLATTER fills the car as
the door is opened.

Neo turns and sees a large man enter.  He is wearing
sunglasses and a black leather jacket.  His name is APOC
and he walks straight at Neo.

Neo stands just as the door at the opposite end opens and
two police officers rush in, drawing their guns.

Apoc grabs Neo, muscling him to the nearest exit.  There
is no upcoming station.

Apoc yanks the emergency brake and the train buckles
against its own speed.  The cops are thrown back.  Neo
slams against the metal rail.

The doors open onto nothing and just when Neo regains his
balance, Apoc shoves him backwards --

He flies out from the train, arms windrilling as he falls
from, the raised tracks --

Hurtling towards a busy city street when, out of nowhere,
a truck races under him and --

He crashes into a large dumpster-bed filled with empty
boxes.

INT.  NEO'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Screaming, Neo bolts upright in bed.

He realizes that he is home.  Was it a dream?  His mouth
is normal.  His stomach looks fine.  He starts to take a
deep, everything-is-okay breath, when --

The PHONE RINGS.

It almost stops his heart.  It CONTINUES RINGING,
building pressure in the room, forcing him up out of bed,
sucking him in with an almost gravitational force.

He answers it, saying nothing.
INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - CLOSE ON CAMERA MONITOR

A wide angle view of a white roon, where Neo is sitting at
a table alone.

We MOVE INTO the monitor, ENTERING the room as if the
monitor were a window.

At the same moment, the door opens and the agents enter.

Smith sits down across from Neo.  A thick manila envelope
slaps down on the table between them.

Neo glances at the name on the file: "Anderson, Thomas 
A."

INT.  NEO'S CUBICLE

The entire floor looks like a human honeycomb, with a
labyrinth of cubicles structured around a core of
elevators.

Neo slumps down into his chair.  A TALL EMPLOYEE stands
up in the adjacent cubicle, leaning over the partition.
EXT.  SKYSCRAPER

The downtown office of CorTechs, a software development
company.

INT.  CORTECHS OFFICE

The main offices are along each wall, the windows
overlooking downtown Chicago.

RHINEHEART, the ultimate company man, lectures Neo
without looking at him, typing at his computer
continuously.

Neo stares at two window cleaners on a scaffolding
outside, dragging their rubber squeegees down across the
surface of the glass.
INT.  APARTMENT

An older Chicago apartment; a series of halls connects a 
chain of small high-ceilinged rooms lined with heavy
casements.

Smoke hangs like a veil, blurring the few lights there 
are.

Dressed predominantly in black, people are everywhere,
gathered in cliques around pieces of furniture like
jungle cats around a tree.

Neo stands against a wall, alone, sipping from a bottle
of beer, feeling completely out of place, he is about to
leave when he notices a woman staring at him.

The woman is Trinity.  She walks straight up to him.

In the nearest room, shadow-like figures grind against
each other to the pneumatic beat of INDUSTRIAL MUSIC.
EXT.  STREET

A police officer unlocks a yellow metal boot from the
wheel of an enormous oldsmobile.

INT.  NEO'S APARTMENT

It is a studio apartirent that seems overgrown with
technology.

Weed-like cables coil everywhere, duct-taped into
thickets that wind up and around the legs of several
desks.

Tabletops are filled with cannibalized equipment that lay
open like an autopsied corpse.

We turn towards the center of this rat-nest of
technology, following the slurping and crunching of
cereal.  We pass an open box of Capln Crunch as we find --

NEO, a younger man who knows more about living inside a 
computer than living outside one.

EXT.  STREET

Trinity emerges from the shadows of an alley and, at the 
end of the block, in a pool of white street light, she
sees it.

The telephone booth.

Obviously hurt, she starts down the concrete walk,
focusing in completely, her pace quickening, as the PHONE
begins to RING.

Across the street, a garbage truck suddenly u-turns, its 
TIRES SCREAMING as it accelerates.

Trinity sees the headlights on the truck arcing at the
telephone booth as if taking aim.

Gritting through the pain, she races the truck --

Slamming into the booth, the headlights blindingly
bright, bearing down on the box of Plexiglas just as --

She answers the phone.

There is a frozen instant of silence before the hulking 
mass of dark metal lurches up onto the sidewalk --

Barreling through the booth, bulldozing it into a brick
wall, smashing it to Plexiglas pulp.

After a moment, a black loafer steps down from the cab of 
the garbage truck.  Agent Smith inspects the wreckage.
There is no body.  Trinity is gone.

His jaw sets as he grinds his molars in frustration.
AGENT JONES walks up behind him.
EXT.  ROOF

On the roof, Trinity is running as Agent Brown rises over 
the parapet, leading the cops in pursuit.

Trinity begins to jump from one roof to the next, her 
moverents so clean, gliding in and out of each jump,
contrasted to the wild jumps of the cops.

Agent Brown, however, has the same unnatural grace.

The METAL SCREAM of an EL TRAIN is heard and Trinity 
turns to it, racing for the back of the building.

The edge falls away into a wide back alley.  The next 
building is over 40 feet away, but Trinity's face is 
perfectly calm, staring at some point beyond the other 
roof.

The cops slow, realizing they are about to see something 
ugly as Trinity drives at the edge, launching herself 
into the air.

From above, the ground seems to flow beneath her as she 
hangs in flight

Then hitting, somersaulting up, still running hard.

COP
Motherfucker -- that's impossible!

They stare, slack-jawed, as Agent Brown duplicates the 
move exactly, landing, rolling over a shoulder, up onto 
one knee.

Just below the building are the runbling tracks of 
riveted steel.  The TRAIN SCREECHES beneath her, a 
rattling blur of gray metal.  Trinity junps, landing
easily.

She looks back just as Agent Brown hurls through the air 
barely reaching the last car

Agent Brown stands, yanking out a gun.

Trinity is running hard as BULLETS WHISTLE past her head.

Ahead she sees her only chance, 50 feet beyond the point 
where the train has begun to turn, there is --

A window; a yellow glow in the midst of a dark brick
building.

Trinity zeroes in on it, running as hard as she can, her 
speed compounded by the train.  The SCREAM of the STEEL 
rises as she nears the edge where the train rocks into the
turn.

Trinity hurtles into the empty night space, her body 
leveling into a dive.  She falls, arms covering her head
as --

The whole world seems to spin on its axis --

And she crashes with an EXPLOSION of GLASS and WOOD, then 
falls onto a back stairwell, tumbling, bouncing down
stairs bleeding, broken --

But still alive.

Through the smashed window, she glimpses Agent Brown,
still on the train, his tie and coat whipping in the
wind; stone-faced, he touches his ear piece as the train 
slides him past the window.

Trinity tries to move.  Everything hurts.

INT.  HALL

She bursts out of the room as Agent Brown enters the hall,
leading another unit of police.  Trinity races to the 
opposite end, exiting through a broken window onto the 
fire escape.

EXT.  FIRE E5CAPE

In the alley below, Trinity sees Agent Smith staring at 
her.  She can only go up.
INT.  CHASE HOTEL

The Big Cop flicks out his cuffs, the other cops holding 
a bead.  They've done this a hundred times, they know 
they've got her, until the Big Cop reaches with the cuff 
and Trinity moves --

It almost doesn't register, so smooth and fast, inhumanly 
fast.

The eye blinks and Trinity's palm. snaps up and the nose 
explodes, blood erupting.  The cop is dead before he
begins to fall.

And Trinity is moving again --

Seizing a wrist, misdirecting a gun, as a startled cop 
FIRES --

A head explodes.

In blind panic, another airs his gun, the barrel, a fixed 
black hole --

And FIRES --

Trinity twists out of the way, the bullet missing as she 
reverses into a roundhouse kick, knocking the gun away.

The cop begins to scream when a jump kick crushes his 
windpipe, killing the scream as he falls to the ground.

She looks at the four bodies.
INT.  CHASE HOTEL - NIGHT

The hotel was abandoned after a fire licked its way 
across the polyester carpeting, destroying several rooms 
as it spooled soot up the walls and ceiling leaving 
patterns of permanent shadow.

We FOLLOW four armed POLICE officers using flashlights as 
they creep down the blackened hall and ready themselves
on either side of room 303.

The biggest of them violently kicks in the door --

The other cops pour in behind him, guns thrust before
them.
COMPUTER SCREEN

So close it has no boundaries.

A blinking cursor pulses in the electric darkness like a
heart coursing with phosphorous light, burning beneath
the derma of black-neon glass.

A PHONE begins to RING, we hear it as though we were 
making the call.  The cursor continues to throb,
relentlessly patient, until --

EXT.  CABIN - DAY

A tableau of the cabin.  The dog is on the front step,
seemingly content despite the light rain.

As fog drifts in, we RISE, and soon the mist has nearly
obscured the house.  The fog turns into clouds and we get
fleeting glimpses of the cabin, as we move farther and
farther away.

We stay in a translucent white stage for a few moments, until
gradually the edges of a circle become apparent in the
corners of the frame.  Still there is a light rain sound.

These dark, rounded edges penetrate further until they are
forming the shape of a circle.

The misty consistency begins to gain some color and body.

And we realize we are now looking at the surface of Solaris.
EXT.  CABIN - DAY

Kelvin is near the front door, dog at his heel.  He looks in
as he brings his key to the lock and his face FREEZES.

RHEYA

Is in the living room, waiting for him.

She is sitting on the sofa, looking toward the other side of
the room.  Sensing someone, she turns to see Kelvin, and her
face melts into a smile.

KELVIN

Opens the door.  He cannot speak.

RHEYA

Rises and moves toward him.

They embrace.

He breathes her in.  She squeezes him.

After a long beat:

EXT.  SPACE

Silence.

The Prometheus moves away from Solaris.

CLOSER ON SOLARIS

After the ship has gone.

A soft black spot begins to form in the center of the planet.

Slowly, inexorably, this black spot begins to expand.

Within a minute Solaris has disappeared.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Kelvin, with the dead Rheya in his arms, crying.  Beyond him
is the rain-streaked window.  On the floor, by her hand, is
the note.  On it is scrawled the end of a Dylan Thomas poem,
the one Kelvin quoted to her the first time they spoke.

EXT.  STREET CORNER - DAY

Ten years ago.  Kelvin and Rheya standing on a street corner. 
They seem to be pausing in the midst of a very serious
conversation.  It is raining.

CUT TO:

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin in bed, on the Prometheus.  Still feverish.

Rheya is mopping his brow.

INT.  KELVIN'S CABIN (EARTH)

Kelvin sits in a chair, looking at:

THE LABRADOR

Sitting in the same position as it was on the Prometheus.

KELVIN

Breathes a sigh of relief at being home.  Everything seems
slowed down, somehow.
INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin, in a fever, eyes open but glazed.

Rheya is putting a compress on his forehead.

KELVIN'S POV

Of the room.

His LABRADOR FROM THE OPENING SEQUENCE is sitting by the
chair.

INT.  LAB

Rheya is on the ground, convulsing.  Beside her is a SMALL
STEEL DRUM, which is spilling a strange-looking LIQUID that
solidifies and vaporizes with a smoky hiss.

Kelvin moves to Rheya and is startled to see that half of her
face and throat are burned away -- not melted as in a fire,
but merely eaten cleanly away.  He picks her up.
INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin is asleep.  Alone.

After a long period of silence, we hear the faint sound of an
instrument of some sort hitting the ground.  After another
beat, Kelvin awakens.  He notices that he is alone, and
something tells him that's not a good sign.
INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Kelvin is yelling at Rheya.  We don't hear what he's saying,
but judging from her reaction, it's not pleasant.  She is
crying.

RHEYA (ON PROMETHEUS)

Experiencing this all over again.  Kelvin comes and sits in
front of her.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Kelvin, still yelling, is packing some things into a
suitcase.  Rheya, between sobs, pleads with him.

RHEYA (ON PROMETHEUS)

Her eyes fill with tears.  Kelvin embraces her.
INT.  OFFICES - DAY

Intercut Kelvin and Rheya at their respective jobs, going
through a normal day.  There is no sound.  As we see these
images, it's clear that Kelvin and Rheya are slightly not
present in their respective encounters with other people;
they are distracted by the idea of each other.

INT.  APARTMENT - NIGHT

This is ten years ago.  Rheya enters, alone.

She crosses to the kitchen and makes a drink.  Almost
immediately, the labrador puppy enters from the bedroom and
stands beside her, tail wagging.  She ignores it and
continues mixing her drink.

Halfway through this activity, the bedroom light comes on.  A
moment later, Kelvin is in the doorway.  Eventually, but not
angrily, because he's still not really awake:
IN THE CORRIDOR

Kelvin listens.  A long time.

Satisfied, he begins to walk away but is stopped by the
sounding of a CRASHING GLASS from within.  He hears footsteps
approach the door, and then a fierce POUNDING.

He takes a step back.  An INHUMAN AMOUNT OF NOISE begins
emanating from the other side of the door, which is now
threatening to break apart.  It sounds like a plane is
crashing in Kelvin's room -- no human could create this kind
of cacophony.

Finally, he steps forward and presses the button to open the
door.

RHEYA

Is revealed, covered in blood.  She has completely torn the
inside of the cabin door apart and has badly injured herself
in the process.
INT.  APARTMENT - MORNING

Rheya, on the floor, dead.  Her hand outstretched, a repeat
of an image we saw earlier.

Rain streaks the kitchen window.

The bottle of pills nearby.
INT.  TRAIN - DAY

Kelvin, staring intently.  What he is staring at is Rheya,
who is seated across from him.  She doesn't see him, yet. 
When she does, she locks eyes with his and doesn't look away.

This continues until she gets off the train.  Kelvin watches
her go, and she looks back at him through the window as the
train pulls away.

INT.  PARTY - NIGHT

Rheya enters, looks around.  She spots Kelvin, who has
already spotted her.  Their expressions indicate they are
pleased to see each other again.  He approaches her, and they
stare at each other a long time, until:

EXT.  SPACE

A shot hovering over the surface of Solaris.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin is lying down, looking at the door.

After a beat, he turns out the lights and rolls over.

CUT TO:

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Time has passed.  Kelvin is asleep.

RHEYA leans into frame and kisses him.

Without even waking, he kisses her back, hungrily.
She stares up and into the pod.  Kelvin watches her go with
difficulty and then CLOSES THE DOOR behind Rheya.

He walks across the docking bay to the control room and
begins preparations for the pod to be jettisoned.

KELVIN

In agony as he watches a real-time, beat-by-beat brand of
technological murder take place: Rheya's pod is pushed off
into space.

RHEYA

Her face contorted in confusion, watches through the pod
window as the docking bay doors close in front of her with a
brutal finality.

KELVIN

collapses to the ground, shattered.

INSERT:

A woman's HAND, resting on the floor of an apartment.  The
fingers are being licked by a LABRADOR PUPPY.

ANOTHER INSERT:

A pot of coffee, on the boil.  Except that it has been left
unattended for too long...

ANOTHER INSERT:

A rain-streaked window.

CUT TO:

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin, on the edge of his bed.  He wants to tear himself
inside out.

A voice calls over the intercom: Snow's.
INT.  TRAIN - DAY

Continued silence, AND:

RHEYA, 30s, staring at us, practically daring us to look
away.  Her obvious intelligence and confidence make her
extremely compelling, along with the fact that it was her
parted lips we were looking at a moment ago.  Her expression
indicates she's in a very raw emotional state.

REVERSE ANGLE

Kelvin is the person she has locked eyes with on the TRAIN.

He is younger here; not just in age, but in spirit.  The
contrast with his older self is striking.

BACK TO KELVIN

Asleep on the ship.  After a beat:

EXTREME CLOSE-UP:

Rheya's LIPS.

Except the circumstance is clearly different: it's darker and
there isn't the side-to-side shimmy of the train car.

A WIDER VIEW

Reveals that Rheya is not sitting on the train -- she is
sitting in Kelvin's room on the Prometheus, right now.

She is staring at Kelvin and she is ethereal in her
stillness.

KELVIN

Awakens, blinks, and slowly recognizes her.

If he is not entirely surprised it is because he has
obviously dreamed of Rheya before.  He looks at her, simply.

RHEYA

Stands and makes her way to Kelvin.

Without hesitation she kisses him and they begin to explore
each other and we see all of it happen and two things are
obvious: first, they have done this before, and two: they
haven't done it in some time.

CUT TO:

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin is asleep, Rheya in his arms.

He wakes up and looks at her, perplexed.  After a beat he
rises to sit on the edge of the bed.

A wave of terror is barely suppressed as he puts his hand to
his forehead.  Rheya opens her eyes.
INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Later.  Kelvin is lying down.  The lights are out, and he is
trying to sleep.

After a moment, he gets up, checks the lock on his door, and
lies back down.

Then he gets up and moves a chair in front of the door, and
lies back down.

Then he gets up and puts two heavy cases on top of the chair,
and lies back down.

Laughing to himself, he drifts off to sleep.

Silence.

ANOTHER ANGLE

On Kelvin, asleep.

ANOTHER ANGLE

On Kelvin, still asleep.  Then:

EXTREME CLOSE-UP:

A WOMAN'S LIPS, slightly parted.

BACK TO KELVIN

Asleep.  Then:
INT.  CORRIDOR - DAY

Kelvin walks, exploring the ship.  He sees something that
stops him:

A NUDE WOMAN

Black, early 20s, slipping across a corridor up ahead.

Kelvin gives chase.  He sees her turn a corner, but by the
time he gets there, she is gone.
INT.  GIBARIAN'S ROOM

Ransacked.

Kelvin registers it, then moves to the corner of the room
where the computer terminal rests.  Within moments he has
discovered Gibarian has recorded a video message for him to
replay.

VIDEO

Gibarian addressing the camera.  He appears to be lucid, but
extremely fatigued.

INT.  PROMETHEUS

Kelvin, in a space suit, climbs with some difficulty out of
the Athena 7, which has come to rest in the DOCKING BAY of
the Prometheus.  Several exploratory PODS fill the remainder
of the area.

Kelvin gets his bearings and looks around, but sees no sign
of life.
INT.  SPACE CAPSULE

Close on Kelvin.  We hold on him a long time, as a myriad of
readouts scroll and flash across his face.  A slit of
sunlight glides slowly through frame.

DISSOLVE TO:

KELVIN

in the same capsule, a month later.  He is asleep.

DISSOLVE TO:

KELVIN

in the same capsule, two months later.  He is dictating some
coordinates to Earth.  He absently scratches his heavy growth
of beard.

DISSOLVE TO:

KELVIN

two months later still.  He is looking out his small,
rectangular window, and for the fist time we cut around to
see the approaching planet: SOLARIS.

Kelvin stares at it, hypnotized.  It has a translucent
quality, as though it is lit from within, and its undulating,
ocean-like surface slowly changes colors.

Kelvin's attention is diverted as an orbiting ship, the
PROMETHEUS, edges into frame.
INT.  CABIN - DAY

The contrast between the cabin's rustic aesthetic and the
aggressively high-tech equipment contained therein isn't as
jarring as you might imagine.

Kelvin is seated in front of a desk, scrolling through a text
readout on a flat, transparent holographic screen.  Behind
him is the Well-Dressed Bureaucrat from the car, and two
others: A WOMAN in her 50s and a MAN in his 30s.  They are
also well-groomed.  Each of their suits are embroidered with
a small but distinctive LOGO of some sort that composes the
acronym DBA.

Kelvin scrolls through several menus, hits a few keys, and a
digitized VIDEO IMAGE appears on his screen: A MAN, unshaven,
looking into the camera.

The man, GIBARIAN, looks very tired and somewhat apologetic. 
The lower part of the screen has a time of day and date
display that reads: 0221 HRS 11/14/31.
EXT.  ROAD - DAY

Less like a road and more like a path that you maneuver a
vehicle through.

The Man, dressed in rain gear, walks down the middle.  He is
accompanied by a medium-sized LABRADOR, and seems in no
particular hurry.

The sound of tires appear and grow in intensity.  The Man,
without saying an actual word, instructs the dog to heal. 
The dog obeys as the Man moves off the road.  The vehicle
hurtles past him -- its engine quiet, its windows darkened --
spraying muddy debris in its wake.

Seconds later, the car brakes abruptly and skids to a stop.

THE MAN

Stops walking and stares at the car, which seems ominously
still.

The car then reverses direction and begins to move toward the
Man, who remains motionless.

When the car is alongside him, a darkened window turns
transparent and we see a WELL-DRESSED BUREAUCRAT in the rear
seat.  His demeanor is pleasant and professional.
INT.  BEDROOM - MORNING

Still, the sound of rain is heard.

A MAN

40s, lies on his side in bed, staring at us.

He has not been sleeping.  In fact, judging from his distant
expression, he has not slept in ages.
EXT.  WOODS - DAY

A mural of leafless trees beneath an overcast sky.  Rain
continues to fall.

Maybe now we begin to notice a strange quality to the light
(or is it the sky?).  Something vaguely unsettling.
Max's hand as three unmarked, circular pills hit his palm. 
Then, he slams the pills into the back of his mouth.

Max replaces the cap on a plastic bottle of unmarked 
prescription drugs. He drinks from the sink and splashes a 
generous amount of water onto his head and face, cleaning his 
nose.

He wipes his nose and examines the last remnants of blood on 
his fingertip. Then, he dips his finger under the tap.

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - MAIN ROOM - DAY

Max's room is constantly dark because the windows are blacked 
out. He flips on his desk lamp.

A tiny ANT crawls across his desk. He looks at it for a moment 
before getting angry and squashing it.

Sitting on the desk are three computer monitors, which Max 
flips on.

Then he pops on more lights and more switches. We pull back 
revealing that Max's apartment looks more like the inside of a 
computer than a human's home.

The room is knee-high in computer parts of all shapes and 
sizes. The walls are covered with circuit boards. Cables hang 
from the ceiling like vines in a Brazilian rain forest. They 
all seem to be wired together forming a monstrous homemade 
computer.

This is EUCLID, Max's creation. The computer is alive with 
sounds and lights.

Max works on Euclid with his solder and drill. He cares for 
the machine as if it were his dream car

But before Marcy finishes, Max hangs up. He rips off the 
printout and heads to the front door.

He checks the peephole, His landlady. MRS. OVADIA, is sweeping 
the hallway stairs humming a turn-of-the century (the last 
one, not this one) tune.

Max waits a moment. He tousles his hair. Then he checks again. 
She's gone. He opens his locks and releases several bolts.

INT.MAX'S BUILDING HALLWAY - DAY

Max locks his front door. Meanwhile, his next-door neighbor, 
DEVI MINSTRY, a sexy young Indian woman, is just getting home. 
Max looks away and tries to get his door locked.

She's weighted down by a bunch of bags filled with food.
Max checks the peephole - all clear.

Then, he opens his -

CLOSET

which is filled with random computer parts and boxes.

He pulls a thick neuroscience book from a shelf in the back of 
the closet. He almost knocks over an old dusty brass 
microscope on the shelf.

Max flips through the book. It contains old plates 
illustrating the brain. Max examines some of the diagrams.

EXT. S0L'S HALLWAY - DAY Max rings the bell on an apartment 
door.

A few moments pass, and then SOL ROBESON opens the door.

Sol is a wise-looking man in his early 70's. He walks with 
difficulty, leaning out of breath on a wooden cane.

His arms are covered with faded Russian prison tattoos and he 
speaks with a thick Eastern European accent, He's happy to see 
Max.
Suddenly, Max hears someone singing. Max looks up. It is the 
Skinny Man and he's singing with passion. It's all very 
strange to Max, who nervously looks away.

And then the singing stops
mid-verse Max looks up and the man is gone. Vanished. Max 
looks aroundno one in Sight.

INT. APARTMENT STAIRCASE - DAY

Max heads up the stairs to his apartment. Just then, a toy 
SLINKY appears from nowhere marching down the stairs.

Max stops and waits until the Slinky hits his foot. He picks 
it up and looks at it.

He looks around wondering what's going on. Then Jenna leans 
out over a railing and starts laughing at Max.

INT. COFFEE SHOP-DAY

Max sits at the counter frantically looking at the Wall Street 
Journal. He plops three pills into his coffee.

He draws circles and other shapes across the page.

Max is interrupted by a puff of smoke. At the same time, 
someone touches his shoulder and says:
PUBLIC BENCH - MOMENTS LATER 
Max waits for his train on an empty platform.

Just then, he hears a DRIPPING sound. Max looks up and notices 
something across the tracks on the other platform. He can't 
quite make it out because his vision is blocked by columns.

He gets up and spots a Young Hasidic Man standing at him.

Blood drips from the Man's hand. Max doesn't know what to make 
of it

A TRAIN SWISHES BY -

INT. MOVING TRAIN - LATER

Max reads an ad that says In big block letters 'MOSHIAC IS 
COMING!' He checks out a few of the other passengers. Then he 
notices a man reading a newspaper across from him.

The headline reads: 'MARKET TAKES NOSE-DIVE. Max jumps up and 
approaches the man.
Max hands the paper back and looks at the man for the first 
time. It is the Skinny Man he saw earlier.

Max gets suspicious and moves into the next car.

AT GRAND STREET
Max exits. He notices that the Skinny Man gets off - one car 
down - as well.

He hustles toward the exit. As he's about to turn a corner he 
looks back. The man seems to be following him.

He dodges around a corner and heads up a staircase.

EXT. TRAIN STATION - DAY 
He seems to have lost him, when he notices a business-woman 
with a pretty face heading right toward him. It is MARCY 
DAWSON.Max attempts to pull away but Marcy is firm on leading him to 
the car. Meanwhile, the Shinny man is heading right at them.

The CHAUFFEUR reaches out to him. Max yanks his arm free and 
runs away. He whips around a corner.

INT. BODEGA - DAY 
Max barrels into the grocery store and buys a Journal. He 
heads to the back of the store and lays the paper across the 
juice section. He checks the listing.
Max turns the page on the Journal and sees the Lancet-Percy 
ad. Then he notices one of the bodega owners staring at him.

EXT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAY

Max scouts his front door. The coast is clear. 
INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAY

Max examines the smashed Euclid mainframe. He uncovers some of 
the strange filo-like substance. He carefully touches it. Then 
he grabs a small pinch of it.

He examines it near a light bulb. He can't guess what it is. 
He sniffs it. He carefully tastes it with the very tip of his 
tongue. He still doesn't have a clue.

Max opens his closet. He pulls out his dusty brass microscope. 
He dusts it off. Next, he pulls out a slide Kit.

Max places the instrument on the windowsill. He grabs an old 
glass slide and puts some of the flaky stuff on it. He slides 
it under the microscope. He looks into the lens, but doesn't 
see anything.

He gets up quickly and heads for the 
HALLWAY

where he looks at Devi's door, nervously. He gathers his 
courage and knocks on her door. Through the door hears.
INT. BASEMENT SHUL - NIGHT

The synagogue is a claustrophobic, fluorescent-lit room in 
general disarray. Two rows of imitation-wooden pews face a 
makeshift altar and Ark. Young Hasidic Men study texts. Some 
work alone, reading and dovening. Others are in small groups 
sharing in heated discussions.

Lenny wraps the Tefillin around Max's arm. Max just wants to 
get out of there. Ephraim prays in the background.
INT. SUBWAY STATION - PUBLIC BENCH - NIGHT

The station is strangely silent. It is also extremely rundown. 
The tracks are rusted and fucked up. All we hear is the sound 
of DRIPPING WATER. The sound is warped and grows and morphs 
until it's downright scary.

Max sits on a bench sucking down pills. His head begins to 
hurt. He touches the right side of his scalp and nubs it.

As the blood surges through his head it brings him waves of 
pain. He gags several times. Then the pain lets loose and all 
Max wants to do is die. He smashes the side of his head with 
his fist.

Across the tracks on the far platform he sees someone.

For a moment Max's pain dissipates. His view is obscured by 
the columns. Max gets up and sees the Young Hasidic Man - from 
earlier - staring at him.
The Man stares at Max without any emotion. Max notices blood 
dropping from the Man's right hand.

Max looks at the Man's face and sees for a split second his 
own face staring back.
Max charges up a flight of stairs. He crosses a passage over 
the tracks and flies down the stairs to the other side of the 
platform.

The Man is gone. A pool of blood sits where the Man was. Max 
touches it with his toe. It's sticky. He notices a trail of 
blood leading off from the pool.
He follows it around a corner where it leads into a corner.

He notices something strange in the shadows. He carefully 
advances on it. Hiding in the shadows is what looks like a 
small piece of brain. It seems to be moving slightly.

Max uses a pen in his jacket to carefully touch it.

Suddenly, Max hears a train's HONK HONK behind him. Max spins 
around. Nothing is there but silence.

He turns back to the gray matter. He touches it again. Once 
again, he hears the deafening HONK HONK. Max spins around, but 
nothing is there.

Frustrated, he pushes his pen deep into the brain - fiber 
ripping apart.

Suddenly, a TRAIN is barreling down on Max. Seconds from 
impact, Max SCREAMS!!!

DISSOLVE TO

BLINDING WHITE VOID
We hear two deep, long sleep-filled breaths and then we CUT 
TO:

INT. SUBWAY TRAIN - DAY

Max's eyes pop open. A TRANSIT COP is sticking him with a 
nightstick.
Max wipes his nose and looks around nervously.

He sees the rides of Coney Island in the distance.

EXT. CONEY ISLAND BEACH - DAY

Max sits on a boulder on a Coney Island jetty. He watches the 
sea.

Then Max sees an old man dressed like KING NEPTUNE scanning 
the shore with a rusty metal detector. The old man picks up 
something. He admires it for a moment before gently setting it 
back on the ground. Then Neptune continues his search.

Max wanders over to the place where the old man exam

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
MAX'S POV through the microscope. Max sees the brain 
structures.

Just then, there's a KNOCK on the door. The knock startles him 
and his hand bumps the turret of the microscope. The lens 
moves and he realizes that the magnification can be changed.

A KNOCK again.

Max looks out the peephole and sees nothing. Confused,

Looks down at his thumb. It's not shaking. He heads back to 
his microscope.

There's a knock again. Max angrily unlocks the door and whips 
it open.

IN THE HALLWAY is Jenna with her calculator.

Then his neighbors' lovemaking turns outright evil. It
sounds like Sodom and Gomorrah next door and Max
can barely stand it.
A jolt of pain surges into his head. He grabs his scar as he 
vomits blood into the sink.
He starts banging his head against the mirror. He bangs
his head again and again until the mirror CRACKS!

His neighbors are cumming and their cries of joy are twisted 
and agonizing.

The mathematician looks at himself and begins to sob. He 
reloads the gun and fires it right into the scar on his head, 
where the pain is coming from.

Max collapses to the ground in complete agony until the bare 
bulb in the bathroom starts blinking on and off.

Suddenly the pain is gone.

Then he hears something. It's Euclid, buzzing with life. He 
gets to his feet and head's into Euclid.

The main monitor is screaming with numbers. The lights in the 
room flicker on and off like on a disco dance floor. A
filo substance billows out of Euclid.

And then a number pops onto the screen. Max estimates how many 
digits are on the screen. 
We move closer and closer into the number, deeper and deeper 
into the screen. Until finally a single pixel fills the screen 
and we're in the

BLINDING WHITE VOID where we hear several deep peaceful 
breaths. 
Then, a fuse blows and we cut to:

BLACK
A phone ringing...once...
twice...then we hear

Max slams the door in their faces.
Max rubs his chin and looks around the room. He starts
saying the number to himself He gets more and more
excited as he reads each digit.

INT. COFFEE SHOP - NIGHT

Max stirs cream into his coffee. Then he pulls out the
Journal.

A phone continues to RING.

In the clouds of the Lancet-Percy ad - in The Journal Max 
writes down the two hundred and sixteen digit number. He 
studies it, examines it, draws on it, tries to figure out what 
it is.
We hear the sound of a phone hanging up.

At the coffee counter, Max pops a handful of pills and 
crumples the paper.

INT. MAX'S BATHROOM - LATER

Max stares at his BALD head in the mirror. All of his hair has 
been removed. A fleshy scar sits on his scalp above his right 
ear.

Max ignores the incessantly RINGING phone.

Max flips through an old neuroscience book. He examines a few 
illustrations and finds the part of his brain that's killing 
him.
INT. SUBWAY - PORT AUTHORITY - NIGHT 
Max paces on a downtown train as it pulls into 42nd Street.

Through the open doors, Max notices a YOUNG PHOTOGRAPHER in 
jeans and a leather jacket photographing him from the uptown 
platform.

Max is enraged and screams at him. The man ducks behind a 
column, but a few moments later he's back snapping pictures.

The doors start to shut, but Max uses his body to get
off the train.

The Photographer sees him coming and flees.

Max follows the man's movement on his platform. When the young 
man shoots up the exit stairs, Max does so as well.

Max catches a glimpse of his foe entering the catacombs 
heading toward Times Square. Max pursues.

Max chases him down a looooong passage.

But he loses him at an underground five-way fork in the road. 
One staircase is Uptown and Queens...
another is Brooklyn...one other is unlabeled.

Still enraged, Max marches forward Just then, he catches a 
glimpse of the Photographer exiting the station.

SMASH TO

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NEON NIGHT

In the heart of New York, Max spins around searching for his 
foe.
His frustration mounts until out of the comer of his eye he 
sees a strange reflection. Not knowing what it's of, he turns 
around to see the source The reflection is from a giant, 
brilliant stock ticker - 50 yards long and luminous.

Max stares at the quotes They are hypnotizing and Max is 
suddenly calm.

Then, Max has a premonition. He turns and spots the 
Photographer in front of a porn shop on Eighth and 42nd.

EXT. PORN SHOP - 42ND STREET - NIGHT

Max whacks the Photographer against a back-lit image of a 
Hustler Centerfold. The man screams.
EXT. CITY STREETS - NIGHT 
Max flees. Jake and Brad charge after him. They're right on 
him - he has a meter or so on them.
He scurries through a construction site and over a footbridge.

Then, he runs into an all-night 
BODEGA

The tough guys chase after him and he gets a bit of a
lead in the narrow aisles. He pleads with the owners for
help - nothing doing.

Jake heads him off and uses his body to block the aisle. But 
Max grabs a can of beans and slams it down on the tough guy's 
nose. The guy goes down and Max shoots out the exit.

EXT. UNDERNEATH CAR - NIGHT 
Max dives under a car and crawls for terror. He sees two sets 
of feet nun by. Max starts to relax when he notices a pair of 
heels on the other side of the car. Marcy bends down and looks 
at him.
But Lenny is late, and Max's world - as well as ours goes 
black.

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Max stares suspiciously at the bathroom. He slowly picks up 
his drill. Wielding it like a hammer, he carefully advances 
into the 
BATHROOM where he looks into the sink. He almost vomits when 
he sees a piece of human brain sitting above the drain. Ants 
swarm across its surface.

Max becomes furious. He whacks it with the drill. Blood flies 
up into his face. In a wild rage, he smashes it and punches 
it.

Then he drops the drill and uses his bare hands to shove it 
down the drain. Screaming like a madman, he jams it until it 
is gone.

INT. BASEMENT SHUL - DAY

A wise-looking, bearded Hasidic man with benevolent, piercing 
eyes stands tenderly over Max. He wears traditional black 
clothes. Lenny Meyer paces nervously in the background.

As Max comes through, RAV COHEN speaks.
Max rushes into Sol s study. The room is covered with Sol's P, 
research books. It seems Sol had recently come out of 
retirement. Max looks at a few of Sol's books. Then he finds a 
piece of paper with Sol's handwriting on it. On the paper is 
THE number. Max slides it into his pocket.

Max looks at the Go board. The pieces are arranged in a giant 
spiral across the board.

DISSOLVE TO

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAY

Max sits on his bed staring at Sol's handwritten number.
Then he notices that his thumb is twitching. He drops Sol's 
note.

He smashes the old computer apart. He tosses his step stool 
through the mainframe.

Then he goes to the window and tries to rip off the cardboard 
covering the glass panes. Nothing doing, so he yanks the 
entire window wide open.

Sunlight floods the room and throws Max into the 
BLINDING WHITE VOID 
where Max looks around starry-eyed. The pain is gone. 
Everything is new to Max - even his hands. The stress leases 
from his brow and his shoulders sag.

Max continues to recite the number His voice becomes tender 
and peaceful. As he starts to become part of the void, his 
voice turns into a whisper and his eyes start to close.

Then he hears Devi.
Max sobs. He holds onto her for dear life

And then be realizes that Devi is not in his arms. He is 
holding onto himself.

Then Max notices Sol's note on the ground. He looks at the 
number. He collects himself and catches his breath.

INT. MAX'S BATHROOM  DAY

Max looks at Sol's note. He lights a match and burns it.

Next, he prepares something in the sink.

We hear the WHINE of a motor. Then it stops, Max looks at 
himself in the mirror, He smiles. Then he gets solemn.

He takes a deep breath. Then we hear the motor again. Max 
lifts up his arm. He's holding a drill. He places the bit 
against the math section of his scalp.

He applies pressure and drills into his brain.

Max collapses as we quickly 
CUT TO

EXT. CITY PLAYGROUND - DAY

TIGHT ON
a tree branch gently blowing in the wind.

Max watches it with peaceful, understanding eyes. He wears a 
hat on his head.

He listens to the wind in the trees.

Just then, Jenna surprises him with her Fisher Price 
calculator on hand.
DARKNESS

And then, slowly emerging from the mists of darkness, a pale,
beautifully proportioned FACE.

The oval face is female, a woman of indeterminate age, her
features as fragile as porcelain.  Her eyes are closed in
sleep, or in death ... or in something in between.

Now TWO MORE FACES emerge out of the darkness.  They are
male, and they float into position on either side of the
female.  They are just as ethereally beautiful, just as pale,
and like the female their eyes are closed.

The ghostly lips of the female begin to twitch.  Her features,
which have been expressionless, suddenly contort, mask-like,
into the face of a woman in fear.  Her eyes open.

The male face on her right contorts too.  His features warp
into an angry snarl -- the mask of a man enraged.  His eyes
open.

The male face on her left takes on the expression of a young
boy, a boy who is terribly frightened.  His eyes open wide.

As if they are lost in the same terrible waking dream, a
sudden and unnerving exchange begins ...
  All we see are three faces on the screen mouthing words but
we can imagine a terrible struggle taking place before us: a
man with scissors lunging at his wife, her anguished scream,
the whimpering cries of their son.

And then there is silence, and it is over, and the three
faces instantly return to their impassive porcelain state.
Their eyes slowly close.  They do not move.

So that when they do move again, it is startling.  In abrupt
unison, the EYES flash open.  Three pairs of eyes stare
straight at us, accusing.

Three mouths open, but speak, in rasping tones, as one.
EXT. SUBURBIA  DAY

Morning in America.  Just look at it.  America in the
midfifties, the suburban landscape stretching endlessly into
the sun drenched distance.  White house upon white house.
Emerald lawns, glistening with dew.

In each driveway, a big Chevy, or a Ford, muscled with chrome,
long tailfins that taper like the fins on rocket ships.

Kids burst out of the houses, and zoom down sidewalks on
trikes.  Mothers in bright dresses stand in doorways,
watching.  The smiling mothers wave to one another, then go
back into their houses.

Dogs bark, birds sing in trees of just the right height,
boys and girls laugh and ring the bells on their trikes.  It
is a delicious world, where dogs and birds and children are
safe.

INT. A HOUSE

A family room with all the trappings of the era: a flagstone
fireplace, a console TV, a man's leatherette Barca-Lounger,
a pipe stand holding two pipes on a nearby table, boxes of
children's games neatly stacked on a wall shelf.
A young mother, CAROL, her hair -in a pony-tail, stands at a
picture window in a corner of the family room, staring mildly
at the scene outside.

CAROL'S POV - A LITTLE GIRL

A little girl bounces a red ball on the sidewalk.  The ball
gets away from her, and rolls into the street.

At the same moment, a two-toned CHEVY, lush and huge, rounds
the corner.

The girl sees the car coming, but still goes after the ball.

THE FAMILY ROOM

Carol sees what is about to happen -- but she doesn't cry
out, or bang on the window, or run for the front door.  She
watches.  And smiles a little.

OUTSIDE

The girl careens gleefully into the middle of the street.

INSIDE THE CHEVY

The driver -- a man in a loose fitting dark green suit, white
shirt, thin brown tie -- sits behind the steering wheel of
the car.

Disturbingly, the man's hands are not on the steering wheel.
Not only that, he is holding the morning newspaper up in
front of him, reading, oblivious to the scene before him.

Through the windshield, we see the little girl in the road
in front of him, going for her ball.

CAROL Watches, her smile in place.

The little girl picks up her red ball, as the Chevy bears 
down on her.

INSIDE THE CHEVY

An alarm suddenly CHIRPS.  The car automatically brakes to a
halt.  The man looks around the edge of his paper to see
what is happening.

THE STREET

The car has stopped, inches from the girl.

The girl giggles as, the man in the car gives her a big wink.
She waves, then runs back to the sidewalk with her red ball.
The man goes back to his newspaper, and the car, entirely on
its own, starts up again.  The car rounds a corner, and
disappears.

INSIDE THE HOUSE

Carol turns away from the window.  She startles when she
sees her husband, JOHNNY, is there behind her.  He is in his
pajamas.  How long has he been there, watching her?
 He takes another step toward her.  She doesn't move a muscle.
A little BOY suddenly enters the room.  Johnny turns, looks
at his son, looks back over his shoulder at his wife.  Then,
without a word, he begins to walk out of the room.  On his
way out, Johnny's eyes flick to Carol's sewing basket, which
sits beside a sewing machine.  It is not the sewing that has
caught his attention, but a large pair of garment SCISSORS
which lie across a fold of colored cloth.

EXT. THE HOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

Johnny stands on the front porch, scratching.  He walks down
his front walk, and bends over to pick up the newspaper.
Carol stands in the doorway, watching him.

A SHADOW slides over Johnny, cast from above.  The air fills
with the piercing WHINE of an engine.  Johnny looks up,
alarmed.

In the sky above him, just beyond the tips of the suburban
trees, is a black PRECRIME POLICE HOVERCRAFT.

The children, the mothers, Carol in the doorway -- everyone
freezes in place, as Johnny is cast into an inexplicable
drama.

Racing SOUNDLESSLY down the street toward him, are SLEEK
TECHNOLOGICAL MARVELS, lethal and efficient looking -- they
seem to be cars -- but they are so different from the fat
Fords and Chevies in the driveways that it is hard for us to
process them.
Helmeted police with mirrored visors erupt out of the cars.
More police drop from the hovercraft in harnesses.  Their
uniforms are black, seem actually to absorb light.  Their
left hands are bare, their right hands are encased in some
sort of complicated glove.

ON - A GLOVE

The glove is a weapon of some kind, the elongated index finger
ending in an open barrel.

Clearly, this is not, as it first seemed, the past -- not
America in the 1950's.  It is the neo-past, the retro world
of America 2040, where the familiar of yesterday is
intermeshed with hypertechnology.

And all of that hypertechnology is focused on JOHNNY, as he
makes a run for the house, sheets of newspaper scattering
behind him.  He bursts up the front porch, shoving Carol out
of the way.

Eight Precrime police officers assemble in the yard. From a
backpack, one of them quickly removes an instrument with a
handle grip and an ovoid screen.  It is a holographic scanner.

He activates it, scans the OFFICER in front of him, and an
IDENTICAL POLICE OFFICER takes three-dimensional form.

The two real officers circle the house, repeating the maneuver
a dozen times.

In less than a minute, a decoy force of men -- three
dimensional, standing in place, but shifting and turning
like living beings -- has been created.  An overwhelming
police deterrent presence has been established.

INSIDE THE HOUSE

The Precrime police overwhelm the interior of the house,
too.  It is impossible to tell which officers are real, and
which are scanned holographs.  The juxtaposition of the
futuristic cops in a 1950's style house is disorienting.

INSIDE A BEDROOM CLOSET

Johnny, in his pajamas, crouches beneath a rack full of his
wife's dresses.

UPSTAIRS HALLWAY

Two OFFICERS, standing back-to-back, hold their gloved hands
out in front of them, palm out.  When the first officer points
his palm toward a door at the end of the hallway, his glove
BEEPS softly.

The officer looks at his PALM.  A red thermal IMAGE appears
on a small flexible screen -- the heat outline of a crouching
man.  The first officer flicks his helmeted head to the second
officer.

THE BEDROOM

The room is packed with police -- how many are real?

THE CLOSET

Johnny squirms, his pajamas saturated with sweat.  He calls
out through the door.
 OUTSIDE THE CLOSET

Every OFFICER in the room lifts his gloved hand and points
his index barrel at the closet door.  The effect is deeply
accusatory.

An OFFICER speaks, his VOICE electronically manipulated to
be as menacing as possible.
EXT. THE HOUSE -- LATER

In the background, Johnny is guided into a Precrime police
vehicle as the neighbors look on.  Carol and her son stand
in the doorway, stunned.

TWO OFFICERS remove their helmets.  The first man is tall,
sandy-haired, good eyes, deeply blue; This is PAUL ANDERSON,
late thirties, Director of the Precrime Division, Washington
D.C.

The second man is ED WITWER, Anderson's second in command,
late thirties, big like Anderson, good face, strong in the
shoulders, short brown hair.

The two men are deeply comfortable together.  They can speak,
or not.  It doesn't matter -- they still communicate.  Two
good cops, good together.

They walk side-by-side around the house, dematerializing the
holographic decoy cops.
 EXT. SAME SCENE -- LATER

The children play on their trikes.  The wives talk among
themselves.  The birds sing, the dogs bark.

The little girl bounces her red ball again.  She stops a.
minute, when two pieces of newspaper blow past her,
unexpectantly littering the orderly suburban landscape.

INT. A BEDROOM - SUBURBAN VIRGINIA (OUTSIDE WASHINGTON)  DAY

Decorated in a 1950's style.  Anderson lies in bed beside
his wife, LISA, a pretty, green-eyed brunette.  It is early
morning, they are both awake.  Her hand caresses his chest.
Maybe they will make love.

Lisa's hand stops suddenly on the center of Anderson's chest.
 INT. THE BATHROOM -- LATER

Anderson steps out of the shower, and begins to towel himself
dry- He glances out a casement window.  He tilts his head,
curious, then wipes at the steam on the window.

ANDERSON'S POV  LISA

Lisa stands in the backyard in her nightgown, talking on a
cell phone.  She hangs up, moves quickly back into the house.

ANDERSON 

Cocks his head, then goes back to toweling off.

INT. KITCHEN -- LATER

Checkered linoleum floor.  Appliances out of the 1950's.

Except there are little differences.  When Lisa puts a skillet
of eggs on the stove, the heating element is not an electric
coil, or gas but a shimmering field of light.

Lisa is dressed in a blue jersey skirt and a brief jacket.
Anderson wears a gray suit, thin blue tie, white shirt,
wingtipped shoes.  He doesn't look up from the newspaper as
he speaks.

EXT. DRIVEWAY -- LATER

Anderson waves to Lisa.  Her big Studebaker drives off down
the tree-lined street and away.

Anderson approaches his Chevy.  He doesn't take out a key to
unlock it.  There is no lock.  He slides in behind the wheel.
Doesn't take out a key for the ignition -- there is no
ignition.

A thin METALLIC ARM arches down from the sun visor, scans
Anderson's EYES, identifying him.  A seat harness wraps around
him, and the car STARTS.

Anderson picks up a folder marked "Precrime" and begins to
read through the papers.  The Chevy backs out of the driveway
and takes him to work.

EXT. INTERSTATE 95 - ALEXANDRIA, VA -- LATER

A vast spread of corporate and government buildings -- the
spillover from Washington D.C. across the Potomac River into
Virginia.

Beyond the white of Washington is "The Sprawl" -- the massive
unzoned city that has spread uncontrolled on the outskirts
of the Capitol.  It is impenetrable and uninviting, especially
to those comfortable in the utopian suburbs.

Anderson's Chevy moves in a sea of fifties-type cars.
Occasionally, an ultramodern vehicle zips past them.  In the
sky above is another sea -- of advertising dirigibles,
holographic billboards, hovercrafts, skim-jet transports.
On one of the holographic billboards giant words begin to
flash: "I LIKE MIKE!"
Then a picture of the smiling President appears.  Then the
words: "RE-ELECT PRESIDENT MIKE BILLINGS FOR ANOTHER FOUR
YEARS!  KEEP THE PAST IN OUR FUTURE!"

INSIDE ANDERSON'S CHEVY

Through his windshield, Anderson glances at a holographic
road sign.

THE ROAD SIGN reads: "FBI Headquarters 1 mile.  CIA
Headquarters 1.5 miles.  PRECRIME Headquarters 2 miles."

Anderson goes back to his papers.

INT. PRECRIME HEADQUARTERS

Anderson sits in a too large office in a too large chair.
He abruptly rises and begins to pace.  The room is large,
but he paces like a lion confined in a cage.

He punches an intercom.  A female VOICE responds.

Technicians swarm all over them like worker bees.  The bodies
of the Precogs are being tended to: exercised, cleansed,
groomed.

The head of each Precog is encased in a complex, ornate HELMET
that seems to be an amalgam of organic tissues and bright
metallics.  The helmets pulse slightly, and the surfaces
seem to flow and shift, like oil on water.

A network of micro-thin cables that are actually strands of
light, rise Medusa-like from each helmet, then centralize
into a single strand, and connect to a massive mainframe
computer.

The Precogs appear to be in suspended animation, or in comas.
They are absolutely still and limp -- except for their faces.
Their faces are in constant motion, the lips mouthing scenes
from murders only they can see.  Life for a Precog is an
endless cycle of death.

CLOSE ON - THE FEMALE PRECOG

we recognize her fragile and perfect FACE from the opening
scene of the movie.  She floats in a glowing nutritive bath.
Like her brothers, she seems to be eternally young, or
eternally old.

The technicians lift her from her bath.  She is dried, dressed
in a robe, then guided into an over-sized, throne like chair.
Her brothers are guided into their thrones, on either side
of her.

Not once are their helmets removed.  What they feed into the
mainframe is too valuable.  It must be gathered twenty-four
unrelenting hours a day.

INT. A ROOM

Ennis Page sits in a room just off the Precog Chamber.  He
can see them through a large window.  He works a large
computer console, the gathering point for the information
the Precogs constantly feed the computer.

Perhaps every ten seconds, a small DISC is released by the
computer, and mechanically gathered, sorted, and placed -under
Page's watchful eye -- into a black case.

ANDERSON is in the room standing quietly behind Page.  As
Director, Anderson is authorized to come and go, but from
his fussy movements, it's obvious Page sees anyone else in
the room as an intruder in his special domain.

Anderson turns and looks through the window at the Precogs.

  Lisa steps back.  The judge reaches out and Anderson hands
him the disc.  The judge inserts it into a special video
machine on his desk.  Anderson steps down, his ritual part
in this trial completed.

A huge MONITOR comes to life behind the judge.  He does not
turn around to watch -- he has his own monitor.

Johnny Palmer watches, eyes wide.  We now see, in detail,
what we previously heard the Precogs act out in the beginning
of the movie.

THE MONITOR

The Palmer's family room.  Johnny reaches into Carol's sewing
basket for the scissors.  Carol stands defenseless in front
of him.  Their son cowers in a corner of the room.
INT.A BOARDING HOUSE - THE SPRAWL -- DAY

Anderson pushes down a tight hallway thick with police and
enters a disheveled room.  The fifties interior is drab: a
Formica table, bad curtains, a frayed Lazy Boy positioned in
front of a TV.

Ed Witwer is already on the scene.  He stands a few feet
from the BODY of a man, gunshot wound to the head, a handgun
on the floor nearby.
INT. ANDERSON'S OFFICE -- DAY

Anderson sits in his office reviewing Precog discs for
premurders in the local Washington area. We stay on him as he
watches the monitor.  He pops the disc, jots down some notes,
slides in the next disc.

Anderson's mouth slowly opens.  He leans close to the monitor,
his face ashen.

EXT. FRANK D'IGNAZIO'S BACKYARD -- LATER

Frank is on his hands and knees, working his vegetable garden.
He whistles softly under his breath as he trowels the rich
soil.

He sits up as he hears someone open the garden gate.  He
lifts his straw hat in greeting, gives a smile.  It's
ANDERSON.
INT. ANDERSON'S BEDROOM -- LATE NIGHT

Anderson stares out the window at Frank's house, illuminated
by the moon.  It's a mournful sight.

Lisa rises on an elbow and watches him from the bed.

INT. PRECRIME HEADQUARTERS-ALEXANDRIA-DAY - ONE WEEK LATER

Ennis Page, in the mainframe room just off the Precog Chamber,
picks up a black BRIEFCASE marked: "Zone 218 Washington /
Alexandria, VA." He approaches the door, and his eyes are
scanned.  The door opens with a HISS.

We follow Page as he walks through doors and corridors until
he reaches a long hallway leading to the Director's office.
Anderson's secretary, Angela, looks up on Page's approach.
She nods.  He nods.

He walks around her desk.  His eyes are scanned, and the
door to Anderson's office opens.

ANDERSON looks up, wearily.

INT. ANDERSON'S OFFICE -- LATER

Anderson inserts a disc into the video monitor, almost
absently.  As we have seen him do before, he swivels his
chair away from the monitor, and stares at Washington D.C.
across the Potomac.  Hovercrafts and transports skim through
the sky above the Washington Monument.

The camera stays on Anderson's back as the sound from the
Precog disc begins.  He hears his own voice speaking in
strained, agitated tones.
 Witwer lowers his gun.  He stands unresisting before

Anderson.

Witwer sees his own death in Anderson's wild eyes, has always
seen it.

Anderson FIRES his weapon, puts a bullet straight into
Witwer's heart, throwing him back against a wall.  Witwer
slumps, dying, beneath the huge digital clock, which reads:

5:20 AM.

BACK TO SCENE

Anderson stares as the monitor fades to a blank.  His hand
goes to his mouth.  His body begins to shake.  He hugs
himself, but he can't stop the shaking.

The DISC pops out of the side of the monitor.  It is a small
SOUND, but it has Anderson up and out of his chair as if it
were a gunshot, He reaches for the disc but cannot touch it.
His legs suddenly weaken, and he drops to one knee beside
his desk, like a man in need of prayer.

There is a single thought that screams through his brain.
It is an almost visible thing, filling the room, blackly.
Anderson whispers the sickening words that shape his fate.
The officer buckles.  Anderson catches him, rolls him gently
into the back of the transport.

Then Anderson quickly reaches into the transport, and begins
stuffing equipment into a duffel bag: a helmet and black
uniform, the weapon-glove, a folded rifle, a holographic
scanner, and other equipment whose function we can only guess
at.

Anderson looks up at a sound, echoey FOOTSTEPS.  They
approach, then fade away.

Anderson places the officer's hands and legs together, then
aims a nozzled cylinder at them.  He shoots a spray of blue
BindFoam chemical restraint, sticking the man to the floor
of the transport in an adhesive glob.

Then he leaves the scene, running.

INT. ANDERSON'S CHEVY

Anderson grips the wheel of his Chevy, driving down 1-95.
The fact that he can't control his car -- that the steering
wheel has no function, his speed is predetermined, and his
direction is guided by satellite -- is maddening now.

From inside the cars that glide along beside him people turn
and look curiously at the man who is actually gripping his
steering wheel.

Anderson slams it with his fist.  Through his windshield
Anderson sees a four year old boy in the driver's seat of a
passing red and black Ford.  His mother sits in the
passenger's seat, blithely reading.  The boy mimics Anderson,
gleefully slams his steering wheel too, then laughs.

Anderson turns and looks the other way, into the distance,
at the "Sprawl,' the vast unzoned city attached to Washington
D.C. You can see it in his face: a man could lose himself in
there.

EXT. POTOMAC PARK

Anderson stands on an embankment.  He holds the Precog disc
in his hand, ready to throw it into the river.

He stands like that ... and then slowly lets his hand drop.
He doesn't do it.

INT. ANDERSON'S HOME - SUBURBS -- LATER

Lisa enters the house, in a rush.  Every shade is drawn.
Paul Anderson sits in an overstuffed chair, absolutely
motionless, like a man who has died suddenly.
They rush into rooms, with increased urgency.  We follow
OFFICER 1 as he moves counter to the group and down the
stairs.

He hesitates as he moves through the living room, which is
awash in personnel.  Lisa stands against the wall, pale and
shaken.  He looks at her for a long beat, then steps over
the shattered door and out into the sunlight.

OUTSIDE

Everywhere else in the neighborhood it is green and calm.
But Anderson's house looks like a wasps's nest someone has
kicked.  Four Precrime hovercrafts are suspended above it,
engines WHINING.  Black Python transports are all over the
street out in front, and more keep coming.

And everywhere on foot, there are Precrime police.  OFFICER
I approaches a Python ground transport.  Another officer
guards it, weapon out, his head turning right to left.  He
settles on OFFICER 1's approach and raises his weapon.

OFFICER 1 doesn't even break stride.  He walks right up to
the guard -- and then right through him.  A holograph decoy.
OFFICER 1 enters the Python.
INSIDE THE PYTHON

OFFICER 1 removes his helmet -- it's Anderson.  And then
comes the moment of truth -- have they cancelled his
IdentiScan access to Precrime vehicles yet?

A little scanner arm arches down from the visor, and flashes
a red beam into his eyes.  Anderson presses his lips together.
The Python turns on, and a generated voice greets him.
Anderson grips the steering wheel.  But his time, since it
is a law enforcement.  Vehicle, the steering actually works.
Anderson pulls out.

FROM ABOVE, as the Python transport slips away from the chaos.

THEN HIGHER, and we see that the direction the Python is
headed will take it from the green of the suburbs, through
the white of Washington, and into the dark of The Sprawl.

INT. PRECRIME HEADQUARTERS -- DAY

Ed Witwer sits alone in an antechamber.  He stares at an
oversized oak door, then looks down at the floor.

He runs both hands through his hair.  He is tired, his eyes
weary, lost.

A voice comes over the intercom.
EXT. THE SPRAWL  NIGHT

The unzoned city is full of 1950's iconography, but it all
feels different than it did in the suburbs.  Where the burbs
were Ike, the city is Joseph McCarthy.

The fat Ramblers and Studebakers have a little grime on them.
The women's dresses are tighter and more urgent, the men's
suits have some shine at the elbows.  You look over your
shoulder here, move faster, and smile a lot less.

And some streets you don't go on at all.  Anderson's Python
moves down one of them.  He stops under a blackened suspension
bridge, gets out.  He's still in uniform.  He holds a duffel
bag.

He starts to walk away from the Python, then hesitates.
He's left the door open.  He shakes his head at his
sloppiness.  Goes back and shuts the door.  Walks away again.

INSIDE THE CAR

He's left a small DEVICE on the passenger's seat.  Digital
numbers shoot by in reverse.  Something CLICKS.

OUTSIDE THE CAR

Anderson continues walking away.  He doesn't look back as
the Python is engulfed in a miniature sun of heat and flame.
It's not a gasoline powered vehicle -- so it doesn't explode.
It just ceases to exist.
  EXT. ORANGE DRY CLEANERS - -- NIGHT LATER

Through a smeared window Anderson sees racks of suits and
dresses hanging in clear plastic bags.  He gets to work on
the door.

INT. ANDERSON'S HOUSE -- NIGHT

Lisa lies in her bed, alone in the dark.  She listens to an
almost inaudible sound, a high WHINE.

EXT. ANDERSON'S HOUSE

A Precrime HOVERCRAFT floats high above her house, a dark
moon in the low clouds.

EXT. ORANGE DRY CLEANERS  -- EARLY MORNING

A worker stands in the back of the store puzzling over the
clean clothes piled on the floor.  It almost looks like a
nest, like someone slept there

EXT. SUBWAY  LATER

Anderson, in a blue suit and fedora, carrying his duffel
bag, stands on a subway platform.  He takes out a cell phone,
dials a number.  He looks up at the SOUND of a train.

The approaching MagLev train has a lit sign on its front
car: "33rd Street Express."

INT. PRECRIME HEADQUARTERS

Search and Command room.  Witwer moves up and down the aisles,
past technicians who man computers and holographic tracking
displays.

A Precrime TECHNICIAN 1 suddenly sits upright.  Witwer picks
him out of the crowd and zeroes in.
EXT. 20TH STREET SUBWAY STATION

Precrime vehicles pull up.  Hovercrafts appear in the sky
above.

INT. 20TH STREET SUBWAY STATION

Anderson's train is just finishing off-loading passengers.
The doors close and the train begins to pull out as the first
helmeted Precrime officers flood the platform.

One of them points.

CLOSE ON: A TRAIN WINDOW
INT.PRECRIME HEADQUARTERS

Witwer stares at the map.  The train has stopped at 20th
street.  But Anderson's still talking.  He isn't getting off
-- he's going on to 33rd Street, the last stop.

Technician 2 presses his earphone close, listens, then calls
over to Witwer.  Witwer covers his mouthpiece.

INT.SUBWAY TRAIN

The Precrime officers aim the index barrels of their
gloveweapons at ANDERSON, who sits blithely on a seat, holding
his cell phone to his ear.

Anderson begins to shimmer, then dematerialize ghost-like,
into nothingness.  He was a holographic decoy.

What is actually there on the train seat is Anderson's cell
phone.  Rigged to its mouthpiece is a tiny digital voice
recorder.

INT. 20TH STREET SUBWAY

Anderson trots up the stairs and safely out onto the streets
of The Sprawl.
EXT. STREET - THE SPRAWL -- NIGHT

Every city has its underbelly.  If you lifted the fat dark
underbelly of The Sprawl this is where you'd end up.

The streets here feel like alleys, clotted and tight.  There
are streetlights, bright ones -- but the light dies at its
source, never makes it through the sour air down to the
ground.

The retro fifties look comes apart here.  The people that
you see -- and you only catch quick glimpses of them, they
move like rats -- wear black mostly, tight fitting
tech-fibers.

ANDERSON'S caught one of the rats, a thin bald guy in black.
Anderson has him pinned up against a wall.  They're having
some kind of exchange -- which consists of the guy answering
none of Anderson's questions, and Anderson pressing him harder
against the wall.

Finally, the guy does something odd.  He lifts a finger and
pulls down Anderson's right lower eyelid.  Anderson lets
him.  Then the guy does the same on the left.  Has a long
look.  And then nods.  Anderson releases him, and they go
off together.

EXT. AN APARTMENT BUILDING -- LATER

An oppressive brick thing on a side street.  The facade is
crumbling.  Nothing good happens in a building like this..

The guy leads Anderson to the building, then scurries off
into the night.

INT. ROOM -- LATER

A stained overstuffed chair in the corner, a dreary little
kitchen with crusted dishes in the sink.

But jarringly, in the center of all this, is a make-shift
hypertech medical setup: a gleaming operating table, an array
of lasers, scalpels and surgical equipment, an anesthesia
console.

Anderson sits in a chair facing DOC.  DOC is a big man with
delicate fingers.  He sneezes, then blows his nose hard into
a handkerchief.
 EXT. THE SPRAWL -- DAY

The suspension bridge where we saw Anderson vaporize the
Python transport.  Witwer stands watching as a Precrime
techno-unit sifts through the white ashes.

Witwer lifts his face to the acrid breeze coursing off the
Potomac.  It's a pose a track dog might hold, nose up, testing
the air for a scent.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE ROOM - THE SPRAWL -- DAY

We can't see anything at first, because Anderson can't see
anything either.  He's in a deep post-surgical haze.  DOC'S
voice comes to him.  It's warped and ugly.
EXT. EDGE OF CORN FIELDS - DAY

A pocket watch. Open. Ticking. Swinging from a chain.
Held by a young man named JOE in a clearing beside a Kansas
corn field. Sky pregnant with rain.
Waiting. He checks the watch, removes his earbud headphones,
stands.
Without much ceremony a BLOODIED MAN in a suit appears from
thin air, kneeling before the young man. Hands and feet
tied. Burlap sack over his head. Muffled screams, gagged.
With no hesitation Joe raises a squat gun and blows the man
apart with a single cough of a shot.

LATER
Joe loads the corpse into the flatbed of his truck.
Cuts open the back of the body's jacket, revealing FOUR bars
of gold taped to the dead man's back. Joe takes them.

EXT. INDUSTRIAL PLANT - DAY

Massive, in the middle of nowhere. Black smoke.
EXT. LA BELLE AURORE - NIGHT

A shitty but bright nightclub in the heart of the city.
Flashy people shiver behind a velvet rope, huge black cars,
big rollers in odd suits swept in by the bouncers.
All trying very hard to be big time.
EXT. LA BELLE AURORE SIDE ENTRANCE

A dingy stage door in back of the building. Joe and Seth
ring a buzzer, smile for a camera, and the door opens.

INT. COAT CHECK

A long dark hallway leads to a tiny antechamber with a coat
check room used for guns. BIG CRAIG leans out of it, and
stops the two.
 INT. LA BELLE AURORE CLUB - NIGHT

Lurid and very loud mixture of a dance club and cabaret. One
by one the LOOPERS emerge from side exits, sneaking in.
Paupers at the feast.

INT. LA BELLE AURORE BATHROOM - NIGHT

Joe and several other Loopers pass around an EYE DROPPER.
Pupils slacken. The drug spins him into a slurred revelry.

INT. LA BELLE AURORE CLUB

Joe staggers out on the dance floor. Miles high.

EXT. LA BELLE AURORE - NIGHT

Joe and the loopers are kicked out by burly GAT MEN, followed
by Kid Blue, pointing and yelling at them. The loopers laugh
their asses off.

EXT. CITY STREETS - NIGHT

Joe's Miata screams through the abandoned city streets,
racing with several other loopers in trucks and sports cars.

IN THE CAR
Jammed with Seth and Loopers, Joe at the wheel. Still so
high. Suddenly one of the Loopers SHOUTS -- Joe slams the

BRAKES

EXT. VAGRANT VILLAGE - NIGHT

Screaming to a halt just shy of a malnourished BEGGAR KID.
Caught in the headlights. Behind him, a miserable vagrant
village in a field.

IN THE CAR
Joe stares at the kid, frozen. A moment. Then spins the
wheel, peels out. The Loopers hoot and shout. Joe's Miata
screams along the dirt road bordering the vagrant village,
whizzing past open fires and dirty huddled families.
JOE'S FACE - serene and focused. Going somewhere.

EXT. SETH'S APARTMENT - DAWN

Joe drops Seth off at his building with its bright red
garage.
 INT. JOE'S APARTMENT - MORNING

An alarm wakes Joe, red-eyed.

INT. JOE'S APARTMENT ENTRYWAY - MORNING

In his bathrobe, Joe checks his apartment mailbox. A slip of
folded paper inside, with 14:30 handwritten on it.

INT. JOE'S APARTMENT

Dressed now, Joe double-checks his french book for a phrase
and heads out.

EXT. FARMLAND ROAD - DAY

Joe's truck zooms away from the city, into corn fields.

EXT. CORN FIELD

Joe's pocket watch at 2:29, ticking away.
A hog-tied MAN with a sack on his head appears before Joe.
Shoots the man in the chest, without hesitation.

INT. DINER - DAY

Joe sits at a booth, the waitress Beatrix brings his coffee.
INT. BLACK HALLWAY

A large gat man pushes past Joe.
At the end of the hall, Suzie leans in a doorway smoking a
cigarette. Not sexy, just tired. She sees Joe, and is about
to say no. But she sees Joe's eyes, and doesn't.
Exhaling a plume of smoke, she withdraws into her doorway.
Joe follows. Through her smoke.

INT. SUZIE'S BEDROOM - LATER

Suzie naked at the mirror. She goes to Joe, lying on the
bed, distant.
INT. JOE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joe gets home. Empty, quiet. Everything in place. He goes
to the rug, pulls it aside. Opens the safe.
All the gold, and nothing else. One bar juts from the side,
knocked out of place.
He pushes it back, and when he lifts his fingers they have a
bright smear of fresh red blood.

EXT. CITY OUTSKIRTS - NIGHT

A hunched figure sprints through an abandoned lot towards a
train yard.
It is a 55 YEAR OLD SETH. He limps up to a razor-wire fence
bordering the train yard.
Surveys the sharp wire, rips the lining from his jacket and
wraps first his left hand then his right.
But stops.
On the palm of his right hand, a WEATHERED SCAR. Clearly
carved in the shape of an arrow, pointing down to his wrist.
Old Seth squints at it, confused. He pulls back his sleeve,
revealing his clean bare forearm.
Then his face changes.
Because his arm is no longer bare. Suddenly, out of nowhere,
more intricate scarring has appeared down its length.
The scars spell out clearly: BE AT 75 WIRE STREET IN 15

MINUTES
Old Seth's breath returns, jagged. He pulls his sleeve up
and hoists himself up the fence, climbing fast.
He reaches the top, gets a good grasp on the wire to hoist
himself over... and stops again.
His right hand is missing a finger. The ring finger is just
gone, its stump worn with age.
Old Seth stares. And now his middle finger is gone as well.
A freight train whistle moans. The cars, open and inviting,
leading out of town. Behind him, the city.
Terror and indecision seizes his chest, so much so that it
takes a moment for him to realize the sound of his breathing
has changed to a ragged whistle.

EXT. WIRE STREET

The car hits a pole.
Out climbs what's left of Old Seth, his face mangled, missing
a foot, one arm gone to the elbow.
Street sign - WIRE STREET. The numbers, 45.
He runs. Howling, missing his tongue. Arm totally gone.
Then falls as his leg goes to the knees. And he's crawling,
an animal form, bellowing wordlessly.
Makes it to an iron street-side door. 75. And with his one
arm, slams it.
Slumps against it, heaving. After a long moment it swings
open.
EXT. CORN FIELD

Joe's pocket watch at 2:29, ticking away. He takes his
stance. Earbud headphones, the drone of French lessons.
A hog-tied MAN with a sack on his head appears kneeling
before Joe. Joe raises his gun without hesitation and shoots
the man in the chest.
Walks to the body, flips it. The man's hands, tied and
purplish. Joe hesitates. Puts his hand next to them.
Similar.
He flips the man onto his back, stares long and hard at the
shape of the man's face under the cloth sack.
Tears it off. An older Asian man's face, frozen in terror.
Joe smirks, the spell broken. His face hardens.
EXT. CORN FIELD - DAY

Our montage comes to an end suddenly and all is silent.
Joe in the corn field, in his stance, ready to draw.
But nothing happens. Silence. Joe checks his watch,
confused.
2:30 and change. Waits. Watching the blank space where the
man is supposed to appear.
Hand on his gun. Breathing shallow. Something is wrong.
2:32. An eternity. Then, there he is.
But different. Not kneeling. On his side, so he flops over
and has to straighten himself. The man's hands are UNTIED.
Holy shit.
Joe raises his gun, scared. Time slows. Finger tightens on
the trigger.
Then he sees: the man has NO SACK ON HIS HEAD. And the face
that stares back at Joe is his own.
57 YEAR OLD JOE. His eyes fixed on Joe.
And for just one split second, Joe's face slackens, and his
finger eases on the trigger.
It's all the hesitation Old Joe needs. He throws his body
into a spin.
Joe snaps out of it, and PULLS THE TRIGGER.
The shot catches Old Joe square in the back, and the impact
blows him forward. But instead of blood beneath his torn
jacket's back, we see the layered gold bars spill out. They
caught the blast.
In what seems like one fluid motion Old Joe's fingers grab
one of the bars, he spins again, throwing handfuls of dirt
and the bar back towards Joe.
Joe flinches, again just for a moment, and when his eyes
focus again and his arm steadies the gun it's too late.
Old Joe is on top of him, with a heavy blow knocking the gun
aside, and with an even heavier one swinging down on Joe's
head, a fist and then

THE CORN FIELD, HOURS LATER
Joe wakes. Blood caked on his face. Headphones beside him,
still squawking French lessons. Sits up.
EXT. FARMLAND ROAD - LATE AFTERNOON

Joe runs, shaky, towards town. Fishes his phone-device from
his pocket, chucks it.

EXT. JOE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Across the street, Joe huddles behind a car, breathing hard.
Looks up at his lit window. Debating.

INT. JOE'S APARTMENT HALLWAY

Joe walks silently towards his apartment door.
It is ajar. He hesitates. Knows he shouldn't.

INT. JOE'S APARTMENT

Holding his breath, Joe edges in. It's ravaged, torn to
pieces. The floor safe is open, about half the gold bars
missing. But the apartment seems empty.
Exhaling, Joe works quickly. Knocks a tile aside, pulls a
wad of cash from the wall. A heavy jacket from the closet.
Eyes dart around the room - what else? But too late --
footsteps in the hallway. Joe ducks into the bathroom just
as Kid Blue and a TALL GAT MAN enter the apartment.

INT. JOE'S BATHROOM

Joe crouches. Outside, Kid Blue piles the man's arms full of
gold bars.
INT. JOE'S APARTMENT

The Tall Gat Man exits, Kid Blue stays crouched over the
floor safe hefting out bars, his back to the bathroom. In
the distance, a GUNSHOT. Kid Blue's head perks up.
CREAK! From the bathroom. Quick as lightning, the Kid draws
his gat and spins - but Joe is already upon him, full sprint.
SLAM! Joe tackles the Kid backwards. But while Joe uses his
momentum to leap over the OPEN FLOOR SAFE, the Kid tumbles
back into it, vanishing inside with a painful thud.
Joe scrambles to a stop, lifts the heavy safe trap door and
SLAMS it down - just as the Kid's hand grasps the open edge.
With a sickening CRACK, the trap door closes on the Kid's
fingers.
A bellowing howl, his fingers withdraw, and the safe door
clicks shut. The ELECTRIC BOX rigged to the code pad to
crack it clatters off, and whirrrr, CLICK. Locked. Joe,
panting, goes on hands and knees to the safe door and shouts
clear and earnest:

EXT. CORN FIELD - DAY

We abruptly CUT ON to a very familiar scene.
Young Joe stands alone in the corn field, in his stance,
ready to draw. But nothing happens. Silence. Joe checks
his watch, confused. 2:30 and change.
This is exactly the scene where Old Joe appears, being
replayed before our eyes. But when Old Joe does APPEAR, it's
different: his hands are tied, his head covered with a sack.
And something very different happens:
Joe raises his gun and without hesitation PULLS THE TRIGGER.
Old Joe's chest explodes. He falls dead.
Joe approaches the body, and slows. Sensing something. He
pulls off the sack. The face of his older self. Old Joe.
He flips him over. Gold bars CLINK beneath a bloody jacket.
Joe has closed his loop.

INT. LA BELLE AURORE CLUB - NIGHT

The other LOOPERS buy Joe drinks and cheer him, celebrating.

INT. JOE'S APARTMENT - MORNING

His belongings in boxes. Joe unloads the GOLD BARS from the
trap door.

EXT. CARGO SHIP DECK - DAY

Out at sea. Joe, bundled against the cold, leans on a
railing, eagerly watching the horizon.

INT. PARIS APARTMENT - DAY

Joe smoking in window of an empty apartment, half unpacked.

EXT. PARIS STREETS - DAY

Joe walking the city streets, breathing deep. Alive.

INT. PARIS BODEGA - NIGHT

Joe picks up a bottle of beer.
Several FRENCH GANGSTERS in suits shake down the OWNER of the
shop for money from the register. One holds a gun in the
owner's face.
Joe ignores them, walks out.
INT. PARIS CLUB - NIGHT

Loud and dark. Joe shotguns eye drops right out in the open,
dances like a madman.

INT. PARIS APARTMENT - DAY

Joe's apartment, unpacked and lived in. Joe smokes.
In a NOOK behind a wall panel - stacks of CASH.

EXT. PARIS STREETS - DAY

Cloudy and cold. Joe wanders alone. Buffeted by strangers.

EXT. PARIS CLUB - NIGHT

Music pumping, Joe deadened at a table, in another world.
Beside him a YOUNG PUNK makes a glass float using his TK
power, then shatters the glass. Red liquid goes everywhere.

INT. PARIS APARTMENT - DAY

Joe takes money from the stacks in the nook, which have grown
drastically low.
LATER - sets a hypo down in the ashtray.

INT. PARIS BODEGA - DAY

A GUN in the face of the shop's OWNER. Held by Joe. Several
years older now, in his mid thirties.
Dressed in a suit, surrounded by fellow GANGSTERS. Now part
of their gang.

EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT

A shoot-out between rival gangs. Joe's guns blaze.
A remorseless killer. Blasting away, cold and skillful.
Smashing up shops that won't pay protection. He's muscle.

INT. PARIS GANG HEADQUARTERS

A dingy dark hallway. Distant thumping bass indicates it's
maybe behind a club.
The hall is lined with French Gangster, all similarly
dressed. Reminiscent of the Gat Men. It takes us a moment
to recognize Joe among them.
In his EARLY 40s now. His face a hard weathered mask. A
soldier. (Note - it is here we transition from the actor
playing Young Joe to the one playing Old Joe.)
EXT. PARIS STREETS - DAY

Snow on the ground.

INT. PARIS CLUB - NIGHT

Old Joe high as a kite, in an all out brawl. Punched to the
ground. Laughing his ass off.
A bar fight blossoms in slow motion all around.
Old Joe looks up, sees the woman who will be his WIFE for the
first time. Long red hair (reminiscent of but NOT Suzie.) In
a green dress. She flees the fighting, towards the exit.

SORTIE.
Transfixed and high, Old Joe follows her. Puts his hand on
her shoulder. She turns, looks him over. Flips him off.
Leaves. Old Joe watches her go. In love.

INT. PARIS CAFE - DAY

Old Joe hits on his future Wife, she tells him to fuck off.

INT. PARIS BEDROOM - DAY

Old Joe in bed with his future Wife. They kiss.

EXT. PARIS STREETS - DAY

Old Joe shoots up a storefront with his gang.

INT. PARIS APARTMENT - DAY

Old Joe's future wife yells at him, holding his gun holsters
accusingly. She throws them across the room.
LATER - He holds her in bed, both of them troubled.

INT. CAR - DAY

Old Joe driving. Deep in thought. His future Wife beside
him, her hand on his. He hits the brakes.

EXT. FRENCH BEACH / HIGHWAY - CONTINUOUS

The car screeches to a halt on a beach side road. Old Joe
gets out, runs across the beach to the water, pulling his gun
out of its holster. He fires it out to sea till its empty,
then throws the gun into the ocean.
He runs back to his Wife, standing on the beach. They kiss.
They fall to the sand, and kiss.
EXT. FRENCH COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

A cottage in the country.

INT. FRENCH COTTAGE BEDROOM - NIGHT

Old Joe sweats and shudders out his drug addiction. His Wife
tends to him.

EXT. FRENCH COTTAGE - SUNSET - YEARS LATER

Old Joe in his mid 50s, his Wife lying on a hammock with him,
reading. Hands lazily entwined. A good life.

INT. FRENCH COTTAGE KITCHEN - MORNING - A WEEK LATER

The Wife cuts vegetables. Headlines (in French) scroll
across a small floating screen, against images of
destruction. Gangland Terror Spreads, Who is The Rainmaker
She turns it off.

INT. FRENCH BEDROOM - MORNING

Lazy, dust motes hanging in the sunlight through the windows.
Old Joe in bed, in his late 50s.
His Wife walks through, says something inconsequential, puts
her hand on his foot. Draws it away, fingers sliding off
gently. And is gone.
We stay with Old Joe. His deep breath. The sun warming the
sheets. Running water from the kitchen.
His eyes focus on his hand. Written in faded ink on the palm
is a number we do not recognize: 07153902935.
A long moment.
With all the violence in the world, the cottage's green front
door is KICKED OPEN.
Joe runs out of the bedroom half dressed, and GANGSTERS grab
him, taking him down with a rifle butt to the head.
His Wife is dragged from the kitchen screaming.

EXT. COTTAGE - CONTINUOUS

Dark cars parked out front. We watch the quiet facade for a
moment too long, violence that we don't want to think about
happening inside.
Then the door BURSTS open and Gangsters drag Joe out, sobbing
thrashing and bleeding from his head.

EXT. JOE'S APARTMENT

Old Joe dashes out onto the street as gunfire cracks from the
high apartment window. Sharp eyes will notice that Old Joe's
right ear is now clipped off, an old wound.
He dashes towards the apartment door, gun in hand, but stops
when the window five stories above shatters with gunfire.
Old Joe backs up, and sees Joe scrambling down the fire
escape as the TALL GAT MAN fires down at him.
Old Joe takes expert aim with the gat, and fires three shots
upwards. The Tall Gat Man's gunfire stops.
Joe slips on the fire escape, falls two stories and lands on
the hood of a parked car.
Old Joe goes to him, checks his pulse.
Behind them the TALL GAT MAN hits the sidewalk with a SPLAT.
Old Joe goes to the tall gat man's remains, picks another gat
out of them, and goes back to Joe's inert body on the car
hood.
EXT. CITY OUTSKIRTS - NIGHT

Joe wakes slowly, pained. Lying alone in an abandoned lot on
the outskirts of town.
Slowly he takes stock of himself. Nothing broken. A tight
bandage on his ear.
A mournful train whistle, and he turns. Through a chain link
fence, the train yard. He was put here for a reason.
A man and a young boy in rags hop onto an empty cargo car,
heading out of town. Joe watches the boy, his eyes angry.
Stands shakily. And walks away from the train yard.
Something like a HELICOPTER sweeps overhead, a spotlight
zigzagging the area. Joe ducks into shadows, heading towards
the city.

INT. LA BELLE AURORE BACKSTAGE

A swarm of activity, Gat Men rushing in and out.

INT. SETH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The peephole screen on the inside of Seth's apartment door.
Kid Blue manipulating a device, a shower of sparks blows the
screen out momentarily, and the door swings open.
Kid Blue storms in, his gun drawn, sweeping through the
apartment with over-eager purpose.
Empty. He deflates. Thinks.
Goes to the peephole screen, touches it and a menu comes up.
A little manipulating, and the image is rewinding.
An empty hall, scanning back half an hour. Then: young Joe.
Kid Blue stops scanning, hits PLAY'. Joe feels around the
door jam, retrieves a key, and enters the apartment.
Kid Blue exhales. Well Joe was here.
Taps the screen again, it goes back to a live feed, and he's
about to step away when his eye catches something.
He pushes a square on the screen, and the view changes. To a
live feed from a camera in the ceiling of the apartment.
Excited, Kid rewinds this half an hour.
On the screen: Joe enters the apartment. Rifles around a
little, then sits at the table. Head in his hands. Staring
into space.
Then goes to a kitchen drawer, opens it, gets something.
Goes to the front door, takes something off the wall, briskly
exits.
Kid Blue stops the screen.
He goes and sits where Joe sat. Stares where Joe stared.
The kitchen counter. A blender, sink. Can labeled COFFEE.
Kid goes to the kitchen drawer Joe opened, pulls it open.
It's full of knives.
Kid goes finally to the door, looks at the wall. A small
rack for keys, several hanging and one empty hook.
Kid Blue stares into space, trying to put these pieces
together. Lights a cigarette.

EXT. CORN FIELD - DAWN - ESTABLISHING

The sun rises over a flat endless field of corn stalks.

EXT. CORN FIELD

We push forward through the green stalks at a brisk pace.
They part before us, endless, hypnotic.

INT. BEDROOM - MORNING - FLASHBACK

The same from the previous flashback.
Old Joe in bed, half asleep. A woman's arm under his neck.
It slips away, and he kisses its wrist. Comfort, warmth.
The woman, leaving. Her hand touches and slides off his
foot, moving away.

EXT. DINER - EARLY MORNING

Old Joe emerges from the corn fields bordering the sidecar
roadside diner. Fumbles in his jacket, dry-swallows four
aspirin. Regains his footing. Walks around the diner
cautiously.
Parked in back behind a dumpster, SETH'S SLAT BIKE.

INT. DINER

Joe sits at a booth. Old Joe enters, steps up slowly, sits.
A moment of silence.
Along with his ear, Joe's hand and arm are now wrapped in
bloodied bandages. Joe's eyes go to Old Joe's arm. Old Joe
pulls his sleeve back and shows him the scar spelling
They all run around back, where Old Joe is halfway to the
corn but not there yet.
The seven Gat Men and Kid Blue and Joe fire their guns after
him while running but they're too far away (and they're
running) so nothing hits. Joe blasts at the old man blindly,
sprinting with all his might, eyes streaming tears in the
dust.
When Old Joe hits the wall of corn he seems to vanish. Four
of the Gat Men follow him in, while the remaining pursuers
slow to a stop, doubled over, panting. Defeated.
It takes a few seconds for Kid Blue to realize that Joe is
there with them. It takes another second for Joe to realize
that the dynamic has changed. He turns and runs back towards
the diner, Kid Blue and the Gat men in pursuit. One of the
Gat Men fires.

EXT. FRONT LAWN - NIGHT

Sara stalks towards the barn, shotgun in hand. Shadows loom
across the yard. All is silent.

EXT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

She reaches the barn. A hard pool of light from a mounted
floodlight falls off to inky darkness.
Hits a metal switch near the barn door and the light snaps
off. In its absence the darkness swarms.
She briskly walks back towards the house, but slows. Stops.
Turns. In the darkness by the barn, crunch crunch. Crunch.
And maybe a shape. Deep in the swarming dark.
EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

A darkened highway, the lights of the farm house distant. A
small STAKE BED TRUCK rumbles up, stops on the soft shoulder.
Sara at the wheel. Sits a second. Then climbs out.
Roughly pulls Joe out of the flatbed. He lands in the dirt.
Sara avoids looking at him, closes up the flatbed.
Joe weakly grabs her ankle. She pries his hand off, and
discovers CID'S CUP in the dirt beside him. Takes it
angrily, strides back to the truck.

INT. STAKE BED TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Sara gets in, drops Cid's cup on the seat beside her. Looks
in her rear view mirror. Leaving a man to die. Looks down
at Cid's cup. For a long moment.
 The last thing she does is handcuff his wrist to the cot and
take his gun. On her way out she puts it on a bench beside
the door, and turns out the floodlight.

EXT. CITY STREETS - MORNING

Dawn breaks. Exhausted Gat Men dutifully patrol the streets
with flashlights, stopping every passerby.
On the outskirts of the city. Vagrant fires burn distant
orange. A large drainage pipe drips into a brackish creek.

INT. DRAINAGE TUNNEL

Underground. We move through it.

INT. RUNOFF ROOM

Cavernous space beneath a high street grating, damp and cold.
Old Joe sits on the ground, methodically cleaning and loading
his gun. He finishes. Places the gun on top of his folded,
torn maps. Closes his eyes. Sees:
In a kitchen area, young men and women mill and chat.
Casually dressed. Feels like an intelligent, relaxed
environment.

Behind them, more young men and women sit at desks, in front
of screens and keyboard.

Each workstation is personalised. Photographs of friends or
family, or pets. Cutting from magazines. Ironic
superhero/video-game figurines.


the hands of the young man writing code.   This is CALEB.
He types fast, with two fingers.

EXTREME CLOSE UP of a pinhole web-cam lens in CALEB'S
monitor.

the POV of the web-cam.

Looking back at CALEB.

Twenty four. Glazed. Ear buds in, connected to cell phone.
Head bobbing slightly to the music.

As we watch from the monitor POV, we can see the computer's
facial recognition system in operation.

Imaged as vector boxes, which track CALEB'S face, and the
faces of all the people behind him.

the COMPUTER MONITOR.

On which a message appears, in a small window, over the code.

VIP EMAIL RECEIVED
subject: HIDDEN

the monitor web-cam POV.

As CALEB stops typing.

He gazes at the message.

Then clicks on the link.
Then mouths the word: Fuck.

CALEB reaches for his cell phone.

the CELL PHONE POV, seen from the tiny camera above the
screen, as CALEB lifts the phone, and starts keying-in a
text.

We see facial recognition software flickering over CALEB'S
features, and reacting to shifts in his expression.

the cell phone. The screen.   The tiny camera nestled above
it. Lens glinting.

On the screen, a time-bar extends next to the word:

sending

A beat later, a reply text message appears.

WTF?   seriously!?

he WEB CAM POV, watching CALEB react to the arrival of the
text.

cell phone screen.
EXT. MOUNTAINS - DAY

A spectacular mountain landscape. Waterfalls drop down
massive rock faces to inland lakes. Rivers push through
forest. Forest spreads across valley floors, which rise to
snow peaks.

INT. HELICOPTER - DAY

CALEB wakes abruptly -

- to find himself in the front seat of a helicopter.

The pilot, JAY, is a man in his forties.

Outside the window is the mountain landscape.
EXT. MOUNTAINS - DAY

The helicopter flies over a vast white glacier.

EXT. MOUNTAINS - DAY

CUT

EXT. MOUNTAINS - DAY

The helicopter flies over the lip of a WATERFALL, revealing a
valley.

The valley floor is a forest, and a single bright green
meadow. Sunlit, like a jewel in the icy mountains.

A white-water river runs through it.

INT. HELICOPTER - DAY
CALEB looks down at the breathtaking view as the helicopter
banks, turns, and descends.

EXT. MEADOW/LANDING SITE - DAY

Meadow flowers whip in the rotor wash as the helicopter
touches down in the vast meadow.

By the landing site is a collection of huge metal crates.
All have Chinese characters on the side.

The rotor blades slow, but don't stop.

JAY exits.

EXT. MEADOW/LANDING SITE - DAY

JAY holds open the door as CALEB exits the helicopter cabin.

CALEB looks around, his eyes adjusting to the bright sunshine
outside.

JAY goes to the side of the helicopter, pops open a hatch,
and removes CALEB'S luggage. A large suitcase with wheels.

CALEB looks around. Apart from the packing crates, there are
no man-made structures to be seen.

CALEB shouts over the engine noise.
The pilot gets back inside the helicopter, and closes the
door.

CALEB hurriedly retreats with his bag.
Moments later, in a roar of wind and noise, the helicopter is
lifting off.

Equally suddenly, the noise is fading, and the helicopter is
soaring upwards, and banking back towards the glacier.

Then it is gone.Bird song and wind rush replace engine
noise.

CALEB suddenly looks very isolated.

EXT. RIVER - DAY

CALEB walks along the banks of the fast-flowing river,
awkwardly bumping his wheeled suitcase over the ground.

The banks of the river start to climb, to an intimidating
drop.

It feels that this can't be the right way.

CALEB reaches into his pocket and pulls out his mobile phone.

No signal at all.

He puts his phone back in his pocket.

EXT. RIVER/HOUSE VIEW - DAY

CALEB rounds a bend in the river.

Ahead, almost hidden in trees, there is a steel and glass
structure.


EXT. CLEARING - DAY

CALEB walks towards the house through the trees.

In the ground, in a grassy clearing, he finds a circular
window, reflecting the sky.

He walks up to the window, and looks inside.

It reveals what is effectively a glass-covered well - about
four metres deep, with smooth concrete sides.

At the bottom of the well is a brightly-lit room, which
appears to be an office of some sort. There is a desk, with
monitors, and a chair.

But apparently no one inside.

Beyond the clearing, in the tree-line, CALEB sees - almost
camouflaged by forest - the dark shapes and straight lines of
a low, one storey building complex.

EXT. HOUSE - DAY
CALEB approaches the building.

As he nears the entrance -

CALEB startles, as an AUTOMATED VOICE speaks to him, from
an unknown source.

INT. HOUSE/DINING AREA - DAY

CALEB enters a dining area.

Which now reveals...

... a huge glass door.

It presents an arresting view of a garden, river, and the
mountains behind.
 
The door is open, and through it, we see the reason for the
thumping sound.

Just outside, on a patio, in the sunshine, a man is working a
PUNCH BAG.

EXT. GARDEN - DAY

CALEB exits the dining area to an area of neat garden,
looking over the river, and surrounded by the mountain
ranges.

The punch bag is suspended by a chain on an exterior flanking
wall of the house.

The man working it is wearing shorts, and is shirtless.
Bathed in sweat.

His hands are not protected by gloves. Only wraps. Spots of
blood seep through the pale material around his knuckles.
This is NATHAN BATEMAN.   He's thirty.

After a flurry of punches, NATHAN breaks off.

Breathing hard, he wipes at his eyebrows with the back of his
wrist. Sweat droplets cascade down his face.
INT. HOUSE/GLASS CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

CALEB and NATHAN exit the elevator, into a glass corridor.

The floor is polished concrete. The walls and ceiling are
glass, behind which diffused light glows.

At regular intervals, glass doors are set, glowing with the
same light, flush with the walls.

Beside the closed doors are keycard plates and soft red LEDs.

CALEB carries his bag, looking slightly encumbered next to
NATHAN.
INT. HOUSE/OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY

what appears to be a neon coloured jellyfish. Tendrils
like axons, hanging in a black-blue liquid space.

REVEAL -

the jellyfish is contained in a glass orb.
Which is held in an exposed cavity at the back of machined
skull-shape...

... which is part of a robot girl.

Her name is AVA.

She's an extraordinary piece of engineering.

Proportioned as a slender female in her twenties, her limbs
and torso are a mixture of metal and plastic and carbon
fibre.

The carbon fibre is charcoal colour. The plastic is cream.
The metal has the yellow-warmth of nickel.

The shapes of her body approximate the form of muscle.   There
are biceps, and breasts. Her hands have five delicate
digits.

Her body-structure is covered in a delicate skin. The skin
is a mesh, in the pattern of a honeycomb. Like a spiderweb,
it is almost invisible unless side-lit.

The one part of her that is not obviously an inorganic
construct is her face - which is that of a strikingly
beautiful girl. Created in a defined oval, from the top of
the forehead to just below her chin. Indistinguishable from
a real girl in its appearance and in the way it moves -
except for one thing.

There is a very slight, almost imperceptible blankness in her
eyes.

As we observe AVA, she fits a section of skull-plate to the
back of her head, which obscures the glass orb and jellyfish
structure.

Then -

- she half turns. As if having become aware of another
presence in the room.

REVEAL -

- the room in which AVA stands.

AVA'S living area is made up of three primary spaces.

The main area is the OBSERVATION ROOM. A large area,
arranged around a glass box, from which she can be viewed.

At the back of the observation room, behind a sheet of semi-
opaque glass, is the PRIVATE AREA. This contains a bed-like
structure, a desk, a wardrobe, and a mirror.
And behind the private area is the GARDEN AREA. This is a
small decorative indoor garden, lit by lamps. The garden is
sealed off from AVA by a thick wall of glass.

There are also several oval discs positioned around the room,
made of some kind of dark non-reflective material. These are
induction plates.

And there is a chair, which faces the glass observation box.

And facing that chair, inside the observation box, is another
chair.

Beside which, CALEB stands.

A beat -

- as CALEB and AVA see each other for the first time.

Then -

- AVA starts walking. Revealing a secondary impact of her
engineering: how she moves. The unconscious precision of her
steps. The fluidity of her action.

CALEB is transfixed as she covers the length of the room to
her chair.

Then she sits down.

And speaks.
INT. HOUSE/GLASS CORRIDOR - NIGHT

CALEB walks out of his room.

The glass corridor illuminates as CALEB enters.

Ahead, one of the doors off the corridor is ajar.
  INT. HOUSE/POLLOCK ROOM - NIGHT

CALEB enters the room with the open door.

It appears to be empty.Still and silent.   Low lit.

Only one area is properly illuminated: a wall, on which a
large JACKSON POLLOCK drip painting hangs.

CALEB walks towards it. Studies the strange strands of
looping colour for a moment.

A TELEPHONE, on a low table.

CALEB walks over to it, with a half glance over his shoulder,
as if sensing he is doing something that - obscurely - he
shouldn't.

Then he picks up the handset.

It's dead.
Then the soft emergency lighting lifts up, and throws the
observation room into a completely different light.

Weirder. Cast from LED strips on the floor, illuminating
CALEB and AVA's faces from below.

In the low light, we see a detail of AVA'S honeycomb skin-
mesh that we were not able to see before.

It glows, soft, like phosphorescence - and this changes the
way we see AVA. Where the mesh is almost invisible in bright
conditions, it is now the dominant describer of her form. So
instead of seeing AVA as a primarily robot structure, we now
see the curves and lines of a naked female body.
INT. HOUSE/CABIN - LATE AFTERNOON

Trees and shrubs cast long shadows across the manicured lawn.

Through the glass wall, we can see the Japanese girl, KYOKO,
preparing sushi.

INT. HOUSE/DINING AREA - NIGHT

CALEB and NATHAN sit at the dining table.

Lanterns are laid out across the terrace.

KYOKO lays out different kinds of salad between them. Each
is beautifully prepared. Leaves are spread and overlapped
like fish scales.

As she does so, she knocks a bottle of wine on the table.

It tips, and lands on its side, and immediately starts
emptying. A deep red stain, blossoming across the linen.

CALEB pushes back his chair as the liquid pushes towards him,
then starts to fall to the floor.
INT. HOUSE/CALEB'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

INT. HOUSE/CALEB'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

CALEB stands in shorts, in front of the sink, having a shave.

He leans forwards into the mirror, as if checking to make
sure he shaved properly on his cheek.

And he hears the noise again.   The servo, making a tiny
corrective movement.

CALEB catches his own gaze in the mirror.

Then he deliberately steps sideways, and turns his head.
Ostensibly to check the other cheek. But actually to have
shifted his position.

And he hears the noise again.

Very faint.   But definitely there.

A micro beat.

Then CALEB pulls back and continues shaving.

Not giving any outward indication that he has just figured
out that there is a camera behind the bathroom mirror.

INT. HOUSE/CALEB'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
Clean-shaved, CALEB walks into his bedroom.

On the TV, the live feed of AVA'S room is playing - though
she is not in shot.

Subtly, CALEB'S gaze flicks to different points around the
room.

To the full-length mirror on the wall.

The high vent for the air-conditioning system.

The TV itself.

CALEB hesitates for a moment.

Then pulls on a T-Shirt.   Picks up his ID card.   And exits.

AVA walks in to the locked-off CCTV shot.

She walks towards an induction plate, rests her hand against
it, and starts charging herself.

As she does so, almost imperceptibly, the lights dim, and a
slight static charge passes over the television screen.

INT. HOUSE/GLASS CORRIDOR - NIGHT

CALEB walks along the glass corridor.

Systematically trying his ID CARD on the doors he passes.

He tries one.

Then another.Then another.   Then another.

Every single door remains locked.

INT. HOUSE/CABIN - NIGHT

CALEB enters a small room with a view over the river and
garden.

It is virtually the only room apart from his own that he
seems able to gain access to.

The lights are all off. The room is only lit by the
moonlight through the sliding glass wall, and lanterns in the
garden.

He starts walking towards the glass wall.
Then stops.

On the patio, NATHAN is working the punch bag.

KYOKO stands a few feet away from him, holding a white towel.

With the glass wall closed, no noise of the impacts
penetrates into the room.

CALEB watches.

NATHAN'S attack on the bag seems strange. More extreme than
the hard workout we saw the first time he was using the bag.

This seems brutal.   Almost frenzied.

For a few moments, the attack on the bag is observed in
silence, from inside the main room.

We can only hear the sound of CALEB'S breathing.

CUT TO -

EXT. GARDEN/GYM AREA - NIGHT

- the punch bag, and a sudden explosion of noise.   Of impacts
and exertions.

Blood smearing the leather where it has soaked through the
knuckle wraps.

A particularly hard right hook connects, and splits the bag.

INT. HOUSE/DINING AREA - NIGHT

- CALEB.   Watching.

Coloured strips of ribbon are visible through the split in
the bag.

NATHAN stands, catching his breath.

Then he reaches out a hand.

KYOKO hands him the towel.

NATHAN wipes his face.

Then reaches out again, this time catching KYOKO'S arm.
He pulls her towards him, and starts to kiss her.

Reaching under her shirt.

Pulling her skirt up over her thighs.

INT. HOUSE/CALEB'S ROOM - NIGHT

CALEB re-enters his room, and closes the door.

After a beat, the lights in the corridor fade out.

EXT. MOUNTAINS - NIGHT

The moon hangs in the sky.

INT. HOUSE/OBSERVATION ROOM - BLACK AND WHITE

Everything in the frame is black and white.

CLOSE UP on AVA'S meticulous abstract pictures, scattered on
a table.

CALEB is looking at them.

REVEAL he is in the observation room.

But he is on AVA'S side of the glass.

And AVA is on his side. Seen through the opaque glass that
divides the private area from the observation area.

EXT. GARDEN - BLACK AND WHITE

The door leads CALEB straight out into the gardens.

In black and white, the backdrop of mountains and clouds look
like an Ansel Adams.

A short distance ahead of CALEB, standing on the grass, he
sees AVA.

She locks eyes with him.

Smiles.

He starts to walk towards her.
CUT TO -

4646
INT. HOUSE/CALEB'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

- CALEB waking, in his dark bedroom.

Lit by light from his TV.

Where AVA lies on her bed, seeming to be asleep.

CALEB sits up.

Thinking. Perhaps replaying his dream.   Gazing at AVA'S
resting form.

Then reaches for the remote control on the bedside table, and
switches the TV off.

EXT. GARDEN - MORNING

EXT. GARDEN/GYM AREA - MORNING

- a brand new punch bag hangs in the patio.   Swinging
slightly in the breeze.

INT. HOUSE/OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY

CALEB and AVA face each other.

AVA is holding up a piece of paper to the glass.
In the PRIVATE AREA, she opens a wardrobe space, which
reveals clothes, and a hair-piece.

Then she starts to get dressed.

First a summer dress.

Then stockings.

Then a long-sleeved cardigan.

She checks her reflection in the mirror, and adjusts the
clothes slightly. Making sure that as much of her robot form
is covered as possible.

Then she puts on the hair-piece.Short, brown hair.

Finally, she makes a subtle adjustment to her face. Similar
to putting on make-up, she adjusts the intensity of her own
skin tones. Her lips redden. Her cheeks blush slightly. A
discreet line of black extends like mascara around her eyes.

INT. TILED HALLWAY - DAY

The old woman carries her manuscript haltingly down a subway
hall.  She stops to catch her breath, then continues and
passes several archway with letters printed above them.  When
she arrives at one topped by an LL, she slips a card in a
slot.  A plastic molded chair drops into the archway.  She
sits in the chair; it rises.

INT. TUBE -DAY

The woman is still in the chair as it slips gracefully into a
line of chairs shooting through a glass tube.  The other
chairs are peopled with commuters.  We stay with the woman as
she and the others travel over New York City in the tube.
There are hundreds of these commuter tubes crisscrossing the
skyline.  The woman glances at the manuscript in her lap.
It's called:

Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind

This serves as the movie's opening title.  The other credits
follow, as the old woman studies commuters in passing tubes.
Their faces are variously harsh and sad and lonely and blank.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

SUBTITLED: FIFTY YEARS EARLIER

Every doctor's office waiting room: chairs against the wall,
magazines on end tables, a sad-looking potted plant, generic
seascape paintings on the walls.  The receptionist, Mary, 25,
can be seen typing in the reception area.  Behind her are
shelves and shelves of medical files.  The door opens and
Clementine enters.  She's in her early thirties, zaftig in a
faux fur winter coat over an orange hooded sweatshirt.  She's
decidedly funky and has blue hair.  Mary looks up.

EXT. BEACH - DAY

Joel stares out at the ocean.  Far down the beach Clementine
stares at it, too.  Joel glances sideways at her then back at
the ocean.

EXT. MONTAUK TRAIN STATION PLATFORM - LATE AFTERNOON

Joel sits on the bench waiting for a train.  Clementine
enters the platform, sees Joel, the only other person there.
She waves, sort of goofily enthusiastic, playing as if
they're old friends.  He waves back, embarrassed.  She takes
a seat on a bench far down the platform.  Joel stares at his
hands, pulls out his journal and tries to write in order to
conceal his awkwardness.

INT. TRAIN - A BIT LATER

Joel sits at the far end of the empty car and watches the
slowly passing desolate terrain.  After a moment the door
between cars opens and Clementine enters.  Joel looks up.
Clementine is not looking at him; she busies herself deciding
where to sit.  She settles on a seat at the opposite end of
the car.  Joel looks out the window.  He feels her watching
him.  The train is picking up speed.  Finally:
INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel lies on his back in fresh pajamas.  His eyes are closed
and electrodes connect his head to several machines.  The
machines are operated by Stan, now in grubby street clothes
and in need of a shave, and by Patrick, dressed similarly.
The monitor on one of the machines traces a myriad of light
blips running like streams through an image of Joel's brain.
Stan presses buttons and operates a joystick, aiming for the
lines.  Patrick (who we saw earlier with Clementine at the
bookstore) studies a meter on one of the machines.

Joel nods, confused, as Rob and Carrie leave the room and
close the door behind them.  Joel hears a hushed argument
ensue in the hall.  He notices the dog asleep on the floor.
He grabs a magazine off the coffee table, flips through it
distractedly as he paces, puts it down, picks up another.  A
subscription card falls to the floor.  He picks it up and is
about to shove it back in the magazine when he sees it is not
a subscription card at all.  It reads:

Clementine Kruczynski has had Joel Barish erased from her
memory.  Please never mention their relationship to her

again.  Thank you.
INT. KITCHEN - DAY

The kitchen is dated and vague.  Joel and Clementine are in
an oversized playpen; they're adults but small.  Joel wears
footsie pajamas with some vague little animals on them.  He
holds a a red furry huckleberry hound doll.  Clementine is
still in her panties and bra.  An oversized woman in high
heels, seen from a low angle, hurries back and forth
preparing dinner.
EXT. JOEL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Stan sits in the van and smokes a cigarette.  He has an
unobstructed view into Joel's bedroom window.  He watches
Mierzwiak and Mary.  They're talking as Howard works.  It
appears to be a very serious discussion.  A car pulls up
outside.  Stan turns to see.  A middle-aged woman gets out,
checks the address on Joel's building, approaches the only
lit window, watches Mierzwiak and Mary inside.  Mierzwiak's
resolve has apparently weakened and he and Mary kiss again.
This time it leads to groping, partial undressing, and
falling onto the bed alongside the unconscious Joel.  The
woman in the window is transfixed.  As Mierzwiak fumbles to
unzip his pants, he catches sight of the woman in the window.
He practically shrieks and jumps up.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

Joel and Clementine walking, hand-in-hand, look up
simultaneously.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Mary looks confusedly at Howard.
INT. COMMUTER TRAIN - NIGHT

Mary, in shock, sits in the empty fluorescent car.  She tries
to look out the window but can only see her own reflection.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

It's deathly silent as Mierzwiak and Stan work on completing
the job.  Mierzwiak locates a light hidden very deep in the
map of Joel's brain.  He targets it.

EXT. ROWBOAT - DAY

Joel, the size of a ten year old, sits fishing with his
oversized father.  Clementine is naked and in the boat, too.
She's reading The Play by Stephen Dixon.

EXT. BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

Joel, Rob, and Carrie step out of the brush and see a bonfire
down the beach.  People and music can be heard.

EXT. BEACH - LATER

Joel sits on a log, a paper plate of chicken and corn on his
lap.  People warm themselves at the fire.  Joel watches
couples talking, kissing, Rob sharing a joint with a guy.
XT. BEACH - NIGHT

Joel finds himself hurrying back to the bonfire.  This scene,
too, is disintegrating.  It dries up and Joel is just
standing there on a faded beach at night, the bonfire frozen
in the distance like a photograph.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Joel sits in the back seat, Rob and Carrie are in the front.
Joel nods glumly.

Carrie continues to talk, but her voice goes under as Joel
studies the faded husks of memories, piled like refuse
outside the moving car window.  He sees dried-out version of
previous interactions with Clementine playing out in loops.
He looks back and sees the memory of his ride home from the
beach with Rob and Carrie.  It, too, is decaying.  Soon all
has crumbled into dust.  Everything goes black.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Howard watches the monitor.  The last specks of light are
fading.  It grows dark.  He is tired, his eyes are hollow.
He turns to Stan, who is staring out the window at the dawn.
Stan turns and wordlessly begins the clean-up.  He pulls the
electrodes off of Joel's scalp, coils cable, packs bags.
Howard dials the bedside phone.  He waits as it rings.

EXT. COMMUTER TRAIN STATION - MORNING

Joel waits on the crowded platform.  The platform across the
tracks is empty.  Joel's train arrives.  It's packed.  He
squeezes on with all the other commuters.
EXT. COMMUTER TRAIN STATION - MORNING

The platform is crowded with business commuters.  Joel is
among them.
The platform across the tracks from them is empty.  Suddenly,
Joel turns and makes his way through the crowd.  He climbs
the stairs, crosses the overpass and makes his way to the
empty platform.  An almost empty train pulls into that
platform.  Joel gets on the train and watches the business
commuters through the dirty window as his train pulls out of
the station.

INT. MARY'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Mary gets out of bed.  She has been crying all night.  She's
a wreck.  She puts on some coffee then crosses into the
living room area.  Sitting there are piles of the files from
work.  She pulls the top one out, copies the name and address
onto an envelope stuffs the file and tape cassette in.  She
pulls another file out.  This one has Joel's name on it.  She
copies it onto an envelope.

INT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel says goodbye to Clementine.
We see people going to their mailboxes, finding manila
envelopes.  One by one they open the envelopes and pull out
tapes.  We see stunned, confused, disbelieving reactions as
people listen to their tapes.

EXT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Joel drops Clementine off.  She kisses him.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - A FEW MINUTES LATER

Joel enters with his mail.  He opens a manila envelope, reads
the enclosed file, sticks the cassette tape in his stereo,
listens.  Joel dials the phone.
They look at each other in silence.

A little boy being called "faggot" by an endless succession
of boys.

The aftermath of a car accident from the driver's POV.

Mary having an abortion.

INT. COMMUTER TUBE - DAY

The old woman and her chair lift out of the line of
commuters.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

It's modern and well-appointed.  The old woman enters, sits
behind the reception desk, drops her manuscript into the
drawer.   She takes some pills with water.  An old man
enters.
