INT.  HOTEL LAFAYETTE (MATRIX) - DAY

The room is empty, heavy curtains covering windows.  It
looks as if it hasn't been touched in years.  In the
bedroom with the cracked oval mirror an old black PHONE
begins to RING.

In the mirror, we first glimpse them and as we keep
TURNING, the room fills with equipment and the team.

Morpheus answers the phone.

EXT.  ROOFTOP

Summoning every ounce of strength in his legs, Neo
launches himself into the air in a single maniacal shriek

But comes up drastically short.

His eyes widen as he plummets.  Stories fly by, the
ground rushing up at him, but as he hits --

The ground gives way, stretchinp like a trapeze net.

He bounces and flips, slowly coming to a rest, flat on
his back.

He laughs, a bit unsure, wiping the wind-blown tears from
his face.

Morpheus exits the building and helps him to his feet.
INT.  DOJO

The speed of the blows rises like a drum solo that seems
impossible to sustain.  Neo's face sheds its mask of calm
with a scream.

He wants to beat Morpheus bad.

Finally a single blow catches Morpheus on the side of the
head, knocking his glasses off.
INT.  MAIN DECK

While their minds battle in the programmed reality, the
two bodies appear quite serene, suspended in the drive
chairs.

Tank monitors their life systems noticing that Neo is
wildly and chaotically lit up as opposed to the slow and
steady rhythm of Morpheus.

INT.  MESS HALL

Dinner is up.  Everyone is eating bowls of single-cell
protein.  It has a cottage cheese consistency.

MOUSE bursts in the room.
INT.  MAIN DECK - CLOSE ON COMPUTER MONITOR - LATER

as grey pixels slowly fill a small, half-empty box.  It
is a meter displaying how much download time is left.

The title bar reads:  "Combat Series 10 of 12," file
categories flashing beneath it:  Savate, Jujitsu, Ken Po,
Drunken Boxing...

Morpheus walks in.
INT.  NEO'S ROOM

Neo wakes up from a deep sleep, feeling better.  He is
wearing a black tank top and shorts.

He begins to examine himself.  There is a futuristic IV
plugged into the jack in his forearm.  He pulls it out,
staring at the grafted outlet.

He feels his bald head.  His fingers find and explore the
large outlet in the base of his skull.

Just as he starts to come unglued, Morpheus opens the
door.

INT.  HOVERCRAFT

The metal harness opens and drops the half-conscious Neo
onto the floor.

Human hands and arms help him up as he finds himself
looking straight at Morpheus.

Trinity and Apoc.  And others, dressed in bizarre, high-
tech combat gear.

Morpheus smiles.
INT.  WASTE LINE

The pipe is a waste disposal system and Neo falls,
sliding with the clot of gelatin.

Banking through pipe spirals and elbows, flushing up
through grease traps clogged with cily clunps of
cellulite.

Neo begins to drown when he is suddenly snatched from the
flow of waste.

The metallic cable then lifts, pulling him up into the
belly of the futuristic flying nachine, hovering inside
the sewer main line.

INT.  POWER PLANT - CLOSE ON MAN'S BODY

Floating in a womb-red amnion.

His body spasms, fighting against the thick gelatin.

Metal tubes, surreal versions of hospital tubes, obscure
his face.  Other lines like IVs are connected to limbs
and cover his genitals.

He is struggling desperately now.  Air bubbles into the
Jell-O but does not break the surface.

Pressing up, the surface distends, stretching like a red
rubber coccon.

Unable to breathe, he fights wildly to stand, clawing at
the thinning elastic shroud --

Until it ruptures, a hole widening around his mouth as he
sucks for air.  Tearing himself free, he emerges from the
cell.

It is Neo.

He is bald and naked, his body slick with gelatin.
Dizzy, nauseous, he waits for his vision to focus.

He is standing in an oval capsule of clear alloy filled
with red gelatin, the surface of which has solidified
like curdled milk.

The IVs in his arms are plugged into outlets that appear
to be grafted to his flesh.

He feels the weight of another cable and reaches to the
back of his head where he finds an enormous coaxial
plugged and locked into the base of his skull.

He tries to pull it out but it would be easier to pull
off a finger.

To either side he sees other tube-shaped pods filled with
red gelatin; beneath the wax-like surface, pale and
motionless, he sees other human beings.

Fanning out in a circle, there are more.  All connected
to a center core, each capsule like a red, dimly glowing
petal attached to a black metal stem.

Above him, level after, level, the stem rises seemingly
forever.  He moves to the foot of the capsule and looks
out.

The image assaults his mind.

Towers of glowing petals spiral up to incomprehensible
heights, disappearing down into a dim murk like an
underwater abyss.

His sight is blurred and warped, exaggerating the
intensity of the vision.  The sound of the PLANT is like
the sound of the ocean heard from inside the belly of
Leviathan.

Below Neo, a petal detaches from the stem, bearing away
the body of an old man like an automated barge even as a
new pod rises up and plugs itself into the empty space.

Inside the new capsule, its surface more translucent and
pinkish in color, Neo sees a small baby.

From above, a machine drops directly in front of Neo.

He swallows his scream as it seems to stare at him.

It is almost insect-like in its design; beautiful
housings of alloyed metal covering organic-like systems
of hard and soft polymers.

A black particle beam washes over Neo, he reacts in pain
as the scanner seems to expose the nervous system wired
to the coaxial cable at his cerebral cortex.

At the back of the neck, the cable lock spins and opens,
disengaging.

The cable pulls itself free, a long clear plastic needle
and cerebrum-chip slides from the anterior of Neols skull
with an ooze of blood and spinal fluid.  The other
connective hoses snap free and snake away as --

The back of the unit opens and a tremendous vacuum, like
an airplane door opening, sucks the gelatin and then Neo
into a black hole.

INT.  VAN

The chop-shop is filled with electronic gadgets, wired to
meters and monitors.  There are shelves lined with
medical supplies and rows of hanging tools, knives,
cleavers, and stainless steel clamps.

Neo is strapped down to an ambulance cart, listening
nervously as Gizmo gets to work.
EXT.  LOWER WACKER

A featureless black van glides up to a staircase that
curls down from the city's surface.

trinity guides the blind Neo down the steps.  The back of
the van slaps open, revealing a young, skinny man who
looks to be still in his teens, wearing an outfit that is
a cross between a surgeon and a telephone repair man.

His name is GIZMO and he smiles lewdly at Trinity,
exposing his teeth that are wired with weird-looking
braces.
INT.  TRAIN

It is three a.m., and the train carries the usual urban
night crawlers.  Neo sits alone, eyes shifting, watching
everything nervously.

There is a METAL BANG and TRAIN CLATTER fills the car as
the door is opened.

Neo turns and sees a large man enter.  He is wearing
sunglasses and a black leather jacket.  His name is APOC
and he walks straight at Neo.

Neo stands just as the door at the opposite end opens and
two police officers rush in, drawing their guns.

Apoc grabs Neo, muscling him to the nearest exit.  There
is no upcoming station.

Apoc yanks the emergency brake and the train buckles
against its own speed.  The cops are thrown back.  Neo
slams against the metal rail.

The doors open onto nothing and just when Neo regains his
balance, Apoc shoves him backwards --

He flies out from the train, arms windrilling as he falls
from, the raised tracks --

Hurtling towards a busy city street when, out of nowhere,
a truck races under him and --

He crashes into a large dumpster-bed filled with empty
boxes.

INT.  NEO'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Screaming, Neo bolts upright in bed.

He realizes that he is home.  Was it a dream?  His mouth
is normal.  His stomach looks fine.  He starts to take a
deep, everything-is-okay breath, when --

The PHONE RINGS.

It almost stops his heart.  It CONTINUES RINGING,
building pressure in the room, forcing him up out of bed,
sucking him in with an almost gravitational force.

He answers it, saying nothing.
INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - CLOSE ON CAMERA MONITOR

A wide angle view of a white roon, where Neo is sitting at
a table alone.

We MOVE INTO the monitor, ENTERING the room as if the
monitor were a window.

At the same moment, the door opens and the agents enter.

Smith sits down across from Neo.  A thick manila envelope
slaps down on the table between them.

Neo glances at the name on the file: "Anderson, Thomas 
A."

INT.  NEO'S CUBICLE

The entire floor looks like a human honeycomb, with a
labyrinth of cubicles structured around a core of
elevators.

Neo slumps down into his chair.  A TALL EMPLOYEE stands
up in the adjacent cubicle, leaning over the partition.
EXT.  SKYSCRAPER

The downtown office of CorTechs, a software development
company.

INT.  CORTECHS OFFICE

The main offices are along each wall, the windows
overlooking downtown Chicago.

RHINEHEART, the ultimate company man, lectures Neo
without looking at him, typing at his computer
continuously.

Neo stares at two window cleaners on a scaffolding
outside, dragging their rubber squeegees down across the
surface of the glass.
INT.  APARTMENT

An older Chicago apartment; a series of halls connects a 
chain of small high-ceilinged rooms lined with heavy
casements.

Smoke hangs like a veil, blurring the few lights there 
are.

Dressed predominantly in black, people are everywhere,
gathered in cliques around pieces of furniture like
jungle cats around a tree.

Neo stands against a wall, alone, sipping from a bottle
of beer, feeling completely out of place, he is about to
leave when he notices a woman staring at him.

The woman is Trinity.  She walks straight up to him.

In the nearest room, shadow-like figures grind against
each other to the pneumatic beat of INDUSTRIAL MUSIC.
EXT.  STREET

A police officer unlocks a yellow metal boot from the
wheel of an enormous oldsmobile.

INT.  NEO'S APARTMENT

It is a studio apartirent that seems overgrown with
technology.

Weed-like cables coil everywhere, duct-taped into
thickets that wind up and around the legs of several
desks.

Tabletops are filled with cannibalized equipment that lay
open like an autopsied corpse.

We turn towards the center of this rat-nest of
technology, following the slurping and crunching of
cereal.  We pass an open box of Capln Crunch as we find --

NEO, a younger man who knows more about living inside a 
computer than living outside one.

EXT.  STREET

Trinity emerges from the shadows of an alley and, at the 
end of the block, in a pool of white street light, she
sees it.

The telephone booth.

Obviously hurt, she starts down the concrete walk,
focusing in completely, her pace quickening, as the PHONE
begins to RING.

Across the street, a garbage truck suddenly u-turns, its 
TIRES SCREAMING as it accelerates.

Trinity sees the headlights on the truck arcing at the
telephone booth as if taking aim.

Gritting through the pain, she races the truck --

Slamming into the booth, the headlights blindingly
bright, bearing down on the box of Plexiglas just as --

She answers the phone.

There is a frozen instant of silence before the hulking 
mass of dark metal lurches up onto the sidewalk --

Barreling through the booth, bulldozing it into a brick
wall, smashing it to Plexiglas pulp.

After a moment, a black loafer steps down from the cab of 
the garbage truck.  Agent Smith inspects the wreckage.
There is no body.  Trinity is gone.

His jaw sets as he grinds his molars in frustration.
AGENT JONES walks up behind him.
EXT.  ROOF

On the roof, Trinity is running as Agent Brown rises over 
the parapet, leading the cops in pursuit.

Trinity begins to jump from one roof to the next, her 
moverents so clean, gliding in and out of each jump,
contrasted to the wild jumps of the cops.

Agent Brown, however, has the same unnatural grace.

The METAL SCREAM of an EL TRAIN is heard and Trinity 
turns to it, racing for the back of the building.

The edge falls away into a wide back alley.  The next 
building is over 40 feet away, but Trinity's face is 
perfectly calm, staring at some point beyond the other 
roof.

The cops slow, realizing they are about to see something 
ugly as Trinity drives at the edge, launching herself 
into the air.

From above, the ground seems to flow beneath her as she 
hangs in flight

Then hitting, somersaulting up, still running hard.

COP
Motherfucker -- that's impossible!

They stare, slack-jawed, as Agent Brown duplicates the 
move exactly, landing, rolling over a shoulder, up onto 
one knee.

Just below the building are the runbling tracks of 
riveted steel.  The TRAIN SCREECHES beneath her, a 
rattling blur of gray metal.  Trinity junps, landing
easily.

She looks back just as Agent Brown hurls through the air 
barely reaching the last car

Agent Brown stands, yanking out a gun.

Trinity is running hard as BULLETS WHISTLE past her head.

Ahead she sees her only chance, 50 feet beyond the point 
where the train has begun to turn, there is --

A window; a yellow glow in the midst of a dark brick
building.

Trinity zeroes in on it, running as hard as she can, her 
speed compounded by the train.  The SCREAM of the STEEL 
rises as she nears the edge where the train rocks into the
turn.

Trinity hurtles into the empty night space, her body 
leveling into a dive.  She falls, arms covering her head
as --

The whole world seems to spin on its axis --

And she crashes with an EXPLOSION of GLASS and WOOD, then 
falls onto a back stairwell, tumbling, bouncing down
stairs bleeding, broken --

But still alive.

Through the smashed window, she glimpses Agent Brown,
still on the train, his tie and coat whipping in the
wind; stone-faced, he touches his ear piece as the train 
slides him past the window.

Trinity tries to move.  Everything hurts.

INT.  HALL

She bursts out of the room as Agent Brown enters the hall,
leading another unit of police.  Trinity races to the 
opposite end, exiting through a broken window onto the 
fire escape.

EXT.  FIRE E5CAPE

In the alley below, Trinity sees Agent Smith staring at 
her.  She can only go up.
INT.  CHASE HOTEL

The Big Cop flicks out his cuffs, the other cops holding 
a bead.  They've done this a hundred times, they know 
they've got her, until the Big Cop reaches with the cuff 
and Trinity moves --

It almost doesn't register, so smooth and fast, inhumanly 
fast.

The eye blinks and Trinity's palm. snaps up and the nose 
explodes, blood erupting.  The cop is dead before he
begins to fall.

And Trinity is moving again --

Seizing a wrist, misdirecting a gun, as a startled cop 
FIRES --

A head explodes.

In blind panic, another airs his gun, the barrel, a fixed 
black hole --

And FIRES --

Trinity twists out of the way, the bullet missing as she 
reverses into a roundhouse kick, knocking the gun away.

The cop begins to scream when a jump kick crushes his 
windpipe, killing the scream as he falls to the ground.

She looks at the four bodies.
INT.  CHASE HOTEL - NIGHT

The hotel was abandoned after a fire licked its way 
across the polyester carpeting, destroying several rooms 
as it spooled soot up the walls and ceiling leaving 
patterns of permanent shadow.

We FOLLOW four armed POLICE officers using flashlights as 
they creep down the blackened hall and ready themselves
on either side of room 303.

The biggest of them violently kicks in the door --

The other cops pour in behind him, guns thrust before
them.
COMPUTER SCREEN

So close it has no boundaries.

A blinking cursor pulses in the electric darkness like a
heart coursing with phosphorous light, burning beneath
the derma of black-neon glass.

A PHONE begins to RING, we hear it as though we were 
making the call.  The cursor continues to throb,
relentlessly patient, until --